<!-- page 1 -->

RISING WITH AFRICA!

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 2 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 3 -->

<!-- image -->

10-67

## Contents

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 4 -->

## ETHIO RE IN FIGURES Ethio RE Annual Report

(FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS)

<!-- image -->

II

<!-- page 5 -->

Earnings Per Share (EPS)

<!-- image -->

Paid Up Capital

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 6 -->

<!-- image -->

## MISSION, VISION AND CORE VALUES

<!-- image -->

## Mission

Provide dependable reinsurance services both locally and internationally through nurturing adequate risk capacity and using highly trained professionals and modern Information and Communication Technology system. The Company endeavours to foster market stability, high professionalism and advancing the business of insurance paying special attention to discharging its corporate social responsibility in the process.

<!-- image -->

## Vision

'To become one of the leading reinsurance companies in Africa by 2027'

<!-- image -->

## Core Values

To  apprehend  our  corporate  mission  and  vision,  Management  and  staff  of  Ethiopian  Re    stand  for  the mnemonic 'ETHIOPIAN':

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 7 -->

## OUR MOTTO 'RISING WITH AFRICA!'

Africa  Rising  is  a  term  coined  to  describe  the  rapid  economic  growth  in  Sub-Saharan Africa  since  2000  and  the  belief  in  the  inevitability  of  further,  rapid  development  of  the continent. The continent is almost predestined to enjoy a long period of mid-to-high economic growth, rising incomes and an emerging middle class. In March 2013, Africa was the world's fastestgrowing continent at a rate of 5.6% a year, and GDP is expected to rise by an average of over 6% a year between 2013 and 2023. Growth has been extant throughout the continent, with over one-third of Sub-Saharan African countries posting 6% or higher growth rates, and the rest growing between 4% and 6% per year. Several international business observers have also named Africa as the future economic growth engine of the world.

There  are  positive  longer-term  trends  across  Africa  all buoyed  by  what  appeared  to  be  high  economic growth rates sweeping the continent. Ethiopian Re, as the youngest reinsurance company stands to benefit  immensely  from  the  unprecedented business  opportunities  brought  about  by bourgeoning  economic  performance of Africa, and hence the motto 'Rising with Africa'. Basing itself in East Africa,  the  Company  is  absolutely committed to provide apposite reinsurance  cover  for  the  ever  rising and dynamic demand for protection.

<!-- page 8 -->

<!-- image -->

## Dear Shareholders:

The financial year 2018/19 has been a great year, in which we  have  successfully  achieved  the  targets  planned.The Company registered 6% increase in Gross Written Premium compared againstpreceding year's results and registered Birr 144.5 million profit before tax in the reporting year.

This  is  my  first  Annual  Shareholder  Meeting  as  Chairman  of the Board of Directors of Ethio-Re and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all of you for your continued trust and unwavering patronage extended to the Companyover the past three years.

The new Board took office in the third quarter of the year and has been exerting maximum effort to understand the business environment, major challenges and opportunities facing the Companyso as to contribute out part in the achievement of its mission and vision.

Throughout the period, we have focused on reinforcing the relationship  with  our  business  partners,  shareholders  and other stakeholders thereby cultivating and  maintaining strong  relationships.  During  the  period,  we  have  witnessed the performance of the Company has shown improvement and we have witnessed steady growth in operational as well as investment income.

The Board has worked vigorously to ensure timely execution and finalization of major strategic goals and initiatives. As a result, during 2018-19, the Company took multiple initiatives aimed at achieving its long term vision. The Company has started implementation of the long-delayed reinsurance and accounting software and hardware infrastructure,  finalized the HR strategy of the Company, started to accept business fromselected  African  markets,  meeting  production  and profit  targets.    I  am  quite  positive  that  the  Company  can further improve its performance in the coming yearsmainly because of theimmense support that it stands to get from its stakeholders.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 9 -->

During the year, the Board of Directors and Board Committees have conducted 17 regular meetings in the course of discharging their respective responsibilities andprovide strategic direction as per the requirements set out by the Regulator and the Company's Articles of Association. The Board has also reestablished the different Committees comprising Human Resources Affairs Committee, Risk and Compliance Committee, Strategy and Investment Committee and Audit Committee. The Board has conducted periodic performance evaluation meetings to help it track the performance of the Company against the approved Strategic Plan and appropriate actions were taken to address identified challenges.

Moreover,  the  Board  had  carefully  taken  note  of  the  issues  raised  by  Shareholders  during  the  3 rd A nnual General Meeting and tried its level best to address most of them. We can assure you that the Annual Report for the previous yearis presented taking the comments and suggestions forwarded by Shareholders.

Ethio-Re's  Board  of  Directors  will  prioritize  and  strive  to  strengthen  the  investment  base  of  the  Company ,  realize  the  rating  project,  implement  the  human  resources  strategy,  put  in  place  risk  assessment  and management framework with the prime objective of  ensuring sustainable growth , finalize the implementation of the information technology project, make the Company more visible and accessible to its national and international customers, among others.

As  a  final  point,  on  behalf  of  the  Board  of  Directors  and  myself,  I  solicit  continued  support  from  valued shareholders in the years ahead torealize the goal of making the Company a world class reinsurer.I also take this opportunity to express my deep sense of gratitude to the National Bank of Ethiopia for their strong support and guidance, during the past year. The Board also wishes to put on record its gratitude to the Company's shareholders and customers for their continued support and encouragement.  The single most important pillar of any Institution is its personnel, it is more so in the case of a service entity like a reinsurance company. To this effect, the Board expresses its sincere appreciation to the commitment and dedication exhibited by Management and employees of the Company at all levels.

<!-- image -->

Hailemariam Assefa Chairman, Board of Directors

<!-- page 10 -->

<!-- image -->

## Dear Shareholders and esteemed partners!

It  is  with  great  pride  and  pleasure  I  present  the  annual report  for  the  financial  year  ending  30  June  2019  to  the Fourth Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of the Ethiopian Reinsurance Share Company.

The Company  has continued its remarkable journey towards the summit envisioned by its founders with superior confidence. Ehtio Re. has continued to register encouraging results  compared  to  projections  in  terms  of  production as  well  as  profit.  Three  years  by  no  means  is  considered sufficient period for a new Company to pose itself as a tough player in any market. Nonetheless, it's with strong sense of belongingness  and  dedication  that  my  colleagues  and  I took our current duties and responsibilities of laying down a resilient and strong foundation.

We  are  very  much  aware  that  the  ownership  of  the Company is fairly unique, as more than 66% of the shares are owned by local insurance companies. We are particularly cognizant  of  the  owner-  client  relationship  could  be  a source  of  unmatched  business  opportunity  and  strength, if  managed  smartly.  Management  is  committed  to  the principle  of  generating  results  in  a  responsible  way  in  the course of fulfilling our duty as a national reinsurer.

During the period, the Company has registered slight growth in gross written premium, but the amount of profit registered was remarkableby any standards. These results achieved in a competitive environment which is more challenging than expected.  Compared  to  last  year,  gross  written  premium income  has  increased  by  6%,  gross  profit  increased  by 83.7%, and earnings per share increased by 40.9%. Above all, it could be seen that the achievement has been stable in view of the year on year increases witnessed.

Ethio-Re,  as  a  new  company,  recognizes  the  competitive business landscape it is operating in,especially competing for  a  business  without  having  any  credit  rating:  a  sine qua  non  to  attract  meaningful  volume  of  business  from continental markets.

Yewondwossen Eteffa

<!-- image -->

Chief Executive Officer Ethio-Re Taking the five-year strategic plan as a roadmap,Management has been striving to achieve the strategic objectives set out for the third year of operation. Our strategy is sketched to produce tangible results, through highly  motivated  professional  team  focused  on  gaining  the  trust  of  customers,  culminating  to  creating greater value to our shareholders. Today Ethio-Re's team has a common culture, mirroring the shared goal of always striving to do things in a way that makes difference to bring the desired results. This is due to strong team spirit which further reinforces the commitment to continuously change the way of doing business. To this end, the organizational structure, which is the vehicle to realize the aspirations of the Company, has been reviewed and significantly changed. Believing in nurturing talent by developing the right mix of expertise, the Company is working on human resources strategy initiatives, with the primary objective of hiring and retaining qualified manpower.

<!-- page 11 -->

The Company's strategic initiatives, together with carefully planned geographic diversification, will enable it achieve more predictable results in the future. For the next few years we have set ambitious targets, with the  objective  of  increasing  earnings  and  canvassing  additional  markets  with  the  overriding  objective  of narrowing the income gap that the phasing out of compulsory policy cessions will create.

Dear Shareholders,

As a Company born out of a long ambition of stakeholders,our success is inextricably intertwined with the success of most of our shareholders. So, supporting the growth and sustainability of the insurance industry will remain one of the pillars of our business model. To do this, it is essential to have a clear strategy and able to deliver objective results in product innovation, development and marketing that create value to customers. While we strive to do all this, much reliance is put on the unreserved support coming from the National Bank of Ethiopia, the Board of Directors, our employees and all our business partners.

Before I conclude, I would like to assure you again that Ethio-Re's Management is striving to put in place appropriate policies and strategies that enable it achieve consistent and stable growth in future. I wish to take this opportunity to thank all our stakeholders, past and present, for supporting us and for being a part of our endeavor to build and nurture our business.

Thank you, I hope you will find the report informative.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 12 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Mr. Hailemariam Assefa Chairman

<!-- image -->

Mr. Shiferaw Bentie Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Binalf Mekonnen Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Shiferaw Ruffie Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Jibat Alemneh Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Kassahun Begashaw Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Melika Bedri Director

<!-- image -->

Mrs. Frehiwet Alemayehu V/Chairperson

Mr. Henok Tessema Director

<!-- image -->

Mr. Fikru Tsegaye Board Secretary

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 13 -->

<!-- image -->

Mrs. Meseret Tilahun Manager, Operations Department

<!-- image -->

Mr. Tekalign Paulos Manager Internal Audit

<!-- image -->

Mr. Yewondwossen Eteffa Chief Executive Officer

Mr. Fikru Tsegaye Manager, Business Development &amp; Corporate Affairs

<!-- image -->

Mr. Mesfin Wolle Manager, IT Services

<!-- image -->

## EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 2018/19

Mrs. Azeb Wogayehu Manager, Finance &amp; Administration Department

<!-- image -->

Mr. Samuel Ademe Chief, Risk &amp; Compliance Officer

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 14 -->

<!-- image -->

## REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 3O JUNE 2019

The Directors of Ethiopian Reinsurance Share Company herebypresenttheir report together with the Audited Financial  Statements  for  the  year  ended  30  June  2019  in  accordance  with  Article  418  and  419  of  the Commercial Code of Ethiopia and Article 9 and 10 of the Company's Articles of Association as well asthe relevant Directives of the National Bank of Ethiopia.

## 1. BACKGROUND INFORMATION

Ethiopian  Reinsurance  Share  Company  (Ethio-Re)  is  the  first  reinsurance  company  incorporated  in accordance with the provisions of Article 5(8) of Insurance Business Proclamation No.746/2012; under license number RB/01/2016 issued by the National Bank of Ethiopia. It started operation on 1 July 2016 and engages in both life and non-life businesses.

Ethio-Re is an organization born out of a long desire of seasoned professionals and policy makers to have a  national  reinsurance  company.  The  concept  paper  for  Ethio-  Re  was  prepared  in  2012  by  a  team  of experts brought together under the auspices of the Ethiopian Insurance Corporation (EIC). The Association of Ethiopian Insurers (AEI) also took part in organizing the Company. The effort to establish Ethio- Re finally came to fruition through Directive No SRIB/1/2014 issued by the National Bank of Ethiopia. The objectives of Ethio- Re, inter alia, are to:

<!-- image -->

- Measure and retain domestic insured risks thereby increasing the capacity of national insurers to take on risks within comfortable margin;
- Assist  the  growth  of  primary  insurance  business  in  the  country  by  way  of  providing  technical  and
- advisory back up both in general and long-term insurance;
- Enhance professionalism in the insurance industry;
- Mobilize investment funds by making use of collected reinsurance premium;
- Prevent undue outflow of hard currency; and
- Generate foreign currency through inward reinsurance business.

## Shareholding Structure

<!-- image -->

Ethio-Re's capital structure is composed of private and public financial  institutions as well as individual investors.    The  Company's  current  shareholderscompriseof  seven  banks,  seventeen  insurance companies, seventy-eightindividual shareholders coming from different walks of life and one labor

- union.

<!-- page 15 -->

## Capital structure

<!-- image -->

The subscribed share capital of the Company is Birr 997.3 million. The Company's paid up capital has reached Birr 607.2million as of June 30, 2019.

## Governance structure

<!-- image -->

The Company's Board of Directors comprise of nine members representing individual shareholders and institutional investors appointed by the Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of the Company. The Board is responsible to provide strategic leadership and direction regarding the overall affairs of the Company.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Relying  on  a  relatively  strong  capital  base,  plus  sound  retrocession  protection  provided  by world-renowned reinsurers, Ethio-Re aims to provide a comprehensive range of reinsurance covers to domestic insurers, in addition to accepting international business on selective basis. The Company strives to mobilize financial resources which would be invested to generate additional income, needless to mention the role it plays in reducing hard earned foreign currency outflow and also generating foreign currency in the form of cross border reinsurance transactions.

Moreover, as the first reinsurance Company in the country, Ethio-Re aspires to enhance underwriting capacity and solvency of direct insurers through providing cover against large and complex risks including  availing  technical  support  to  bolster  underwriting  skills.  Ethio-Re  strives  to  simplify  treaty negotiations, settlement of claims and payment of premiums within the shortest time.

## 2. BOARD OF DIRECTORS

The roles and functions of the Board of Directors and the CEO of the Company are distinct, and their respective responsibilities have been clearly definedin the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company. The Board comprises of nine directors appointed to serve in their individual capacity and as representatives of institutional investors. The Board,together with executive management, defines the Company's strategies, objectives andexerciseseffective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues. The directors bring a wealth of experience and knowledge to the Board's deliberations and decision-making process.

Corporate  governance  refers  to  a  form  of  responsible  company  management  and  control  geared  to long-term  creation  of  value.  Ethio-Re  strictly  complies  with  the  corporate  governance  Directive  set  by the  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia  (NBE)  ,  Insurance  Corporate  Governance  Directive  No.  SIB/42/2015  and the Company's Corporate Governance Guideline prepared and approved by its Board of Directors.The Company has the following governance structure:

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

General Meeting of Shareholders;

- Board of Directors;
- Chief Executive Officer;

Senior Management; and

- External Auditors

<!-- page 16 -->

Ethio RE Annual Report Board Meetings: The Board holdsordinary meetings to deliberate on institutional affairs, while special meetings are called whenever deemed necessary. The Board held Seventeen regular meetings during the year under review.

Committees of the Board: The Board has set up fourcommittees, namely Human Resources Affairs Committee, Risk and Compliance Committee, Audit Committee, and Strategy and Investment Committee whichprepared and adopted their respective charters to serve as a guide in the course of discharging their responsibilities.These Committees are intended to expedite efficient handlingand decision making on matters that normally fall within the scope of the Board's responsibilities.

## 3. TRADING ENVIRONMENT

## 3.1   THE GLOBAL REINSURANCELANDSCAPE

According to African Reinsurance Pulse 2019, in the year 2018, global insurance premiums reached US$ 5,193 billion, surpassing theUS$ 5 billion mark for the first time. In line with a global market share of 1.3 %,Africa's insurance premium volume increased by 4.9 % from US$ 65.2 billion in2017 to US$ 68.4 billion in 2018. With a share of 71 %, South Africa is by farthe continent's largest market, followed by Morocco (7 % of total premiums) andKenya (3 %). Since 2016, non-life premiums outside of South Africa increasedby 3.3 % in US$ terms, which is significantly lower than the South African growthrate of 23.4 %. In life insurance, the South African market grew slower (+ 16.6 %)than the rest of the continent (+ 19.3 %) over the same period.

Africa's economies continued to strengthen in 2018. The GDP expanded by an estimated 3.5 %, roughly in line with the prior year, but trailing slightly below the global average of 3.6 % and the emerging market average of 4.8 %. Insurance premiums expanded by 4.9 %, ahead of GDP. Accordingly reinsurance will have benefitted in line with insurance

Reaching an estimated 3.5 % in 2018, which is similar to the 2017 growth rate andoutperforming the 2016 growth by 1.4 percentage points, Africa's economic growthcontinued to strengthen. According to the IMF, Africa's more diversified - and henceless resource dependent - economies are expected to sustain growth rates in excessof 5 %. Growth in these countries is supported by higher agricultural production,increasing consumer demand, and rising public investment. On a regional level, with an estimated growth rate of 5.7 % in 2018, East Africacontinues as the continent's fastest growing region, closely followed by North Africa,which was expected to achieve a growth rate of 4.9 % in 2018. With a projected rateof 1.2 %, growth in Southern Africa lags behind.

In 2018, African non-life premiums stood at US$ 22.1 billion, representing anincrease of more than US$ 400 million (+ 1.9 %). Among the major markets, growthin US$ terms was steepest in Morocco (+ 8.4 %), followed by Kenya (+ 5.5 %) andSouth Africa (+ 4.8 %). Some of the smaller markets, such as Côte d'Ivoire (+17.7 %)or Zimbabwe (+ 16.9 %), achieved remarkable double-digit growth rates.

Sub-Saharan  Africa's  dependence  on  agriculture  makes  the  region  also  vulnerableto  extreme  weather conditions. The IMF expects that below average precipitation canreduce annual economic output by 1.5 percentage points in extreme cases.

Based on Swiss Re Institute estimates, the size of the global reinsurance marketin 2018 was US$ 260 billion, equal to 5 % of direct insurance premiums written.Cession rates in non-life insurance (8.4 %) were higher than in life insurance (2 %).As a general observation, non-life insurance cession rates are higher in emerging thanin

<!-- page 17 -->

mature markets. While motor cession rates are typically very low (approx. 4 %),special lines such as aviation, marine or engineering (approx. 30 %), property (16 %)and liability (14 %) see much higher cession rates.

Based on regulatory statistics it was estimated that the size ofthe African reinsurance market surpassed US$ 7.5 billion in 2018, equal to a cessionrate of 11.3 %, which is more than twice the global average. The average Africannon-life insurance cession rate was 27.1%, more than three times higher than theglobal average. With a cession rate of 3.2 %, the average life cession rate was onlyabout 50 % higher than the global average, reflecting the dominance of the matureSouth African life insurance market in the continent's portfolio.

Total global life reinsurance premiums amounted to an estimated US$ 60 billion in2018 (according to Swiss Re Institute). With estimated premiums of US$ 1.5 billion,African life reinsurance accounted for a global market share of 2.5 %, about 50 %higher than Africa's share of the global primary life insurance market (1.6 %). In  mostmid-sized  markets,  ceded  life  insurance  premiums  remained  more  or  less  stable(Egypt,  Morocco, Namibia, Tunisia). Kenya and Nigeria saw considerable increasesin US$ terms. Life cession rates in Kenya (7.9 %), Nigeria (6.9 %) and Egypt (6.9 %)were much higher than the African average (3.2 %), while life insurers in Moroccoceded a relatively low portion (0.9 %) of their premiums to reinsurers.

Based on a global non-life reinsurance market size of US$ 200 billion estimated bySwiss Re Institute, Africa's market size of US$ 6.1 billion translates into to a globalmarket share of 3 %, much higher than Africa's share of the global non-life insurancemarket (less than 1 %). With an estimated volume of US$ 3.2 billion, South Africaaccounted for more than 50 % of the continent's total non-life reinsurance premium in2018. Ceded premiums volumes increased significantly in Morocco (+ 10.4 %), Algeria(+ 8.8 %) and Zimbabwe (+ 9.7 %) and remained stable in many other markets.

## 3.2     ETHIOPIAN ECONOMIC PROFILE AND THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY

The Ethiopian economy registered 7.7 percent growth in 2017/18, slower than the 10.9 percent expansion recorded in the previous year. This growth was attributed to 12.2 percent rise in industrial output, 8.8 percent expansion in service sector and 3.5 percent growth in agriculture.

Consequently, the share of industry in GDP rose to 27 percent in 2017/18 from about 26 percent in 2016/17 while that of service increased slightly to 39.2 percent from 38.8 percent in 2016/17. In contrast, the share of agriculture fell to 34.9 percent in 2017/18 from 36.3 percent during the same period. This gradual but steady shift in the structure of the economy reflects the government's policy direction of developing manufacturing sector and promoting export-led growth while continuing to give due attention to modernizing the agriculture sector which has dominated the country's economic base for years.

The robust and sustained economic growth recorded over the last 15 years has led to improvements in reducing income inequality and poverty. Accordingly, per capita income has continuously increased and reached USD 883 in 2017/18. Poverty has declined to 22 percent from 38.7 percent in 2004/05. Investment to GDP ratio has increased to 34.1 percent while that of domestic savings rose to 22.4 percent. Despite the recent uptick, inflation has been kept within single digit level in 2017/18 largely aided by tight monetary and prudent fiscal policy stance. Yet, the annual average headline inflation rose to 13.1 percent in 2017/18 from 7.2 percent a year earlier due to the rise in both food and non-food prices. Similarly, annual headline inflation went up to 14.7 percent from 8.8 percent owing to 6.7 percentage point and 4.9 percentage point increases in food inflation and non-food inflation respectively. (National Bank of Ethiopia, Annual report, 2017/18).

<!-- page 18 -->

## THE INSURANCE INDUSTRY: Ethio RE Annual Report

Of the 17 insurance companies operating in Ethiopia 16 were private and the total capital of all insurance companies reached Birr 8.2 billion at the end of the period under review. The industry registered a gross written premium of Birr 9.1 billionwitnessing almost 8.3% growth compared against the previous year result. General  insurance  (GI)  continued  to  dominate  the  sector,accounting  for  Birr  8.6  Billion  or  94.3%  total premiums, with motor insurance continued to claim the largest share - constituting 50.2% of total insurance premiums and 53.2% of the gross written premiums generated under General Insurance class of business. The industrywide loss ratio in respect of general insurance has reached 61%. On the other hand, Long Term Insurance accounted for Birr 514.3 million or merely 5.7% of total premiums written but witnessed a relatively low 51% lossratio.  The industry's net earned premium and net claims incurred for the period ended June 2019 reached Birr 6.3 billion and Birr 3.8 billion respectively, with an overall loss ratio of 60%. The retention ratio remained 72% while the net claims incurred has increased to Birr 3.8 billion from Birr 3.67 billioncompared to the preceding year. The total asset of insurers as at 30 June 2019 has reached Birr 20.8billionwitnessing an increase of Birr 4.8 billion compared to the figure in the preceding year.

## Summary of Financial Information of Insurers as at June 30, 2019

Table1: performance of the Ethiopian insurance industry

Source: NBE: June 30, 2019

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 19 -->

## 3.3     COMPULSORY POLICY CESSIONS (CPC): THE CASE FOR AND AGAINST.

Like  many  national  reinsurance  companies  in  developing  economies,  Ethio-Re  is  entitled  to  receive  5% compulsory policy and 25% treaty cessions by the virtue of the stipulation of Directive No.SIB/44/2016 of the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE).The Directive, which governs the manner and criteria of transacting reinsurance business, requires an insurer to cede at least 25% of its treaty business and 5% of each policy issued or renewed by an insurer to the national reinsurance company. In addition, the Company also has the right of first refusal in respect of all facultative placements.

The  rationale  driving  the  establishment  of  national  reinsurance  companies,  particularly  in  developing countries, remains valid to this date although it was first introduced almost more than half a century ago. The proliferation of indigenous private capital in the insurance sector in the late 1980s, to some extent, modulated the fear of capital flight,albeit it did not prevent a relatively significant portion of the business being ceded to foreign companies in the form of reinsurance resulting in a drain of hard-earned foreign currency. The situation was further made worse following extensive mega infrastructure developments embarked on by the country resulting in only negligible proportions of these risks and hence corresponding premiums retained by local insurers.

According  to  the  audited  financial  statements  for  the  year  ended  30  June  2019,  legal  policy  cessions accounted for 60.7% of the total premium income of the Company, whereas the underwriting result for the same period witnessed a gross loss after deducting the retrocession premium paid to protect the account. Determining the real reason behind the poor performance registered in customarily profitable classes requires further review, but the agreement which provides that commission to be paid on policy cessions to follow terms of the treaty of ceding companies has negatively impacted the result of this account.

Contrary to the fierce argument that compulsory cession would give a reinsurer huge advantage by taking away  good  business  from  direct  insurers  spectacularly  failed  to  make  resonance  considering  the  poor performance of the account over the past three years. It was from different perspective that proponents of compulsory policy cession argued the positive impact the scheme would bring on to the overall performance of the Company. For one thing, policy cessions were thought to generate huge cash flow which can then be invested to generate income which, to some extent, makes marginal contribution to profit and also extenuate losses arising out of abnormal rise in the frequency and severity of claims. On the other hand, the premium income coming from policy cessions, big as it is, would have a positive impact on the size of the Company's portfolio.

Despite the problems that resulted in the poor performance of compulsory policy cessions, it is possible to make the account profitable should the agreement regarding the manner of ceding compulsory business is reviewed and necessary amendments are introduced. Thus, it is incumbent upon executive management and insurance companies to take the necessary steps to improve the performance of this particular account.

<!-- page 20 -->

## 3.4 MANNER OF ACCEPTING AND CEDING FACULTATIVE BUSINESS: Ethio RE Annual Report

Regarding the manner of transacting reinsurance business, Directive No.SIB/44/2016 grants Ethio-Re the right of first refusal on all facultative businesses before they are offered to overseas companies. Nevertheless, this particular provision of the Directive has not been consistently and strictly adhered toresulting in forfeiture of the income that could be generated from this source. In addition to indirectly influencing the rate of premium being applied for a cover, strict enforcement of the provision would have boosted the income spawned from domestic sources.

The Company together with the Association of Ethiopian Insurers(AEI) has been lobbying to introduce certain amendments to the relevant provisions of Directive No. SIB/44/2016 with the object of ensuring consistent application  of  the  original  intent,  i.e.  exhausting  local  capacity  before  ceding  business  abroad.  In  this regard several discussions have been held with the National Bank of Ethiopia on the possibility of revising the provisions of the Directives following which consensus was reached in the final version of the provision. It is pertinent that all concerned parties exert the necessary efforts for issuance of the revised directivesbefore the end of the year.

## 3.5 TIMELY FILING OF QUARTERLY REPORTS AND SETTLEMENT OF BALANCES:

The manner of submitting the accounts in respect of compulsory policy cessionshas been agreed to operate like a quota share treaty whereby quarterly accounts on premiums and claims are submitted in a summarized form. Accordingly, insurers submit quarterly accounts by class of business after offsetting claims incurred during the period against premiums due and deducting any applicable commissions.

Whilst it is understandable that the delay observed in submitting periodic accounts largely attributed to the current state of IT prevailing in the insurance industry, the attention given to streamline the timely compilation and consolidation of data is so low that no significant improvement is on the horizon. Moreover, the time clause for submission of quarterly accounts is a condition precedent in almost all reinsurance treaties which in effect means that complying with the requirement of the clause would have serious consequences. Needless to mention that the Company could not submit quarterly accounts to the regulatory authority within the prescribed time due to the inability to obtain data from ceding companies.The Company should therefore work with the regulatory authority and the insurance industry to establish proper reporting mechanisms in the years to come.

Reinsurance business is about collecting, analyzing and interpreting data in order to significantly enhance the capacity to predict the likelihood and frequency of future occurrences accurately. Ethio-Re is uniquely positioned to serve as the aggregator of market statistics, which, in addition to managing adata base for its own needs, would also serve as a good source of information as far as insurance business is concerned. To this end, Ethio-Re. is planning to create a suitable platform that would make possible capturing, consolidating and processing  of  industry  data  with  a  further  option  of  making  the  information  available  to  interested external parties. In doing so, the Company is intending to serve as a center where vital information regarding the insurance industry could be stored and made available.

<!-- page 21 -->

However, timely filing of quarterly statement of accounts and subsequent confirmation of same has remained a  challenge  which  affected  the  Company's  ability  to  compile  periodic  accounts  and  conduct  timely appraisal of performance. In contrast, insurance companies have consistently complied with the deadline set by the NBE in this respect, which makes one to wonder why this proved difficult when it comes to Ethio Re. The Company wants to draw the attention of the industry on the need to file periodic statements of accounts so that subsequent confirmation and preparation of periodic accounting reports finalized within acceptable time. It is also important to mention here that the delay in submission of statements of accounts means that subsequent confirmation and settlement of premiums could be delayedwhich ultimately results in reduction of income.

## 3.6   COLLECTION OF PREMIUMS:

Writing reinsurance business is worthless if the Company never receives amounts due on time. The insurance industry  is  operating  on  the  basis  of  a  'no  premium,  no  cover'  policy,  which  requires  insurers  to  collect premiums upfront for an insurance cover to be valid as per the stipulation of Insurance Business Proclamation No. 746/2012.

This effectively abolished the customary way of providing coveron credit as part of marketing strategy. This particular provision of the law is believed to have significantly improved the financial position of insurers; eliminating the expenses incurred in chasing debtorsand the huge provisions to be set aside to guard against bad debts. Technically, any amount due to Ethio-Re. is coming from a premium that was already collected by a direct insurer and hence any premium should be paid as soon as statements of account areconfirmed and delivered.However, collecting premiums due from insurers, including minimum and deposit premiums, remained a demanding task with some insurers unwilling or unable to settle amounts due for relatively long time. If this practice is allowed to continue unchecked, the Company would ultimately be forced to keep substantial reserve as a safeguard against possible future default. In an era when insurance companies got rid of the practice of keeping a fair share of their assets as a reserve to safeguard against possible future defaults, forcing Ethio-Re. to maintain this type of reserve is unacceptable. So, settlement of premiums as soon as statements of accounts are received should be given utmost attention before the situation deteriorates to a point where supervisory intervention becomes inevitable.

## 3.7   GETTING VOLUNTARY CESSIONS FROM THE LOCAL MARKET AND INWARD FOREIGN BUSINESS:

Income targets from foreign business: The Company has set targets to write inward business from overseas market (5% of the total GWP).

Following  successful  negotiation  with  retrocessionairs,  the  restrictions  imposed  has  been  waived,  and Management conducted a risk assessment and drawn a business plan including identification of target markets with the assistance of Afro- Asian Insurance Services. During the year 2018/19, the Company was able to underwrite foreign business through Reinsurance Brokers amounting to Birr 2.5 million, for the first time.

The Company has set targets to obtain voluntary cessions from domestic market so that the impact of the cessation of compulsory cessions could possibly be minimized. The Company so far managed to secure voluntary cession from 2 local insurance companies, and many have promised to provide voluntary cession on  all  treaties  on  top  of  the  compulsory  treaty  cession  once  any  outstanding  issues  with  their  current reinsurers are settled. Management expects to write more business in the years to come and especially when compulsory policy cession ceases.

<!-- page 22 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## 4. RESULTS 4.1  FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Ethio RE Annual Report

## TOTAL ASSET

<!-- image -->

During the period under review, the total asset of the Company stood at Birr 1.6 billion, showing an increase of42% than last year's similar period.

## CAPITAL

<!-- image -->

During the period under review, the total capital of the Company reached Birr758.8million, showing an increase of 23%  when comparisons are made with last year's similar period.

## GROSS WRITTEN PREMIUM

<!-- image -->

During  the  period  under  review,  the  Company  has  generated  a  gross  premium  income  of  Birr 698.7million. The total premium generated was higher than last year's similar period by Birr 37.2million or 6%.Figures indicate that the difference in registered growth with the industry's performance were observed mainly due to increase of retention level of local ceding companies to align with regulatory requirements, local capacity promotion practice risk sharing of facultative business amongst local players before the same is availed to reinsurers and premium rebates relating to policy cancellations, 10% contribution relating to compulsory third party motor insurance premium, COMESA yellow card cover premium, travel and health insurance, and inward facultative businesses. On the other hand, the difference under life insurance class was observedbecause the company only takes yearly renewable life policies.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

From  the  total  premium  for  the  period  under  review,  Birr  672.2million  or  96%  was  generated  from general reinsurance, whereas the remaining Birr 26.5 million or 4% was from life reinsurance.

Fig: portfolio mix by class of reinsurance

<!-- image -->

During  the  reporting  period,  the  Company  has  written  business  from  selected  African  markets amounting to Birr 2.5 million.

<!-- page 23 -->

## CLAIMS PAID

<!-- image -->

The Company has settled gross claims amounting to Birr 521million. Out of the total claims paid, Birr 466million and Birr 54.7 million were paid under policy and treaty cessions, respectively. Moreover, the Company has settled gross claims amounting to Birr 62.5 thousand for businesses written under foreign account.

## NET CLAIMS INCURRED

<!-- image -->

The Company's net claims incurred reached Birr 328.8million. The amount has shown a decrease by Birr 6million or 2% as compared to last year's similar period. During the reporting period, the net claims incurred at industry level has reached Birr 3.8 billion showing an increase of Birr 104 million or 2.8%, compared to last year's similar period performance.

## CEDANT ACQUISITION COST

<!-- image -->

The Company has outlaid Birr 176.9 million for acquisition cost, which is higher than last year's similar period by Birr 26million or 17%. The increment in cedant acquisition cost was mainly due to increase in written premium during the year.

## COMMISSION INCOME

<!-- image -->

The company earned Birr 22.2 million as commission income which is higher than last year by Birr 17.5 million. The increase in commission income was registered mainly due to change in retrocession arrangement from non-proportional to proportional treaty.

## OPERATING AND OTHER EXPENSES

<!-- image -->

The  Company  has  outlaid  Birr  32.8million  as  operating  and  other  expenses  which  is  higher  than last  year's  similar  period  by  Birr  10.7million.  The  registered  increase  was  mainly  due  to  recruitment of additional work force to strengthen the manpower of the company, increase in promotion and advertisement expenses as well as training and development expenses.

## NET INVESTMENT INCOME

<!-- image -->

During the period under review, the Company has earned Birr 102.7 million from investment which is  higher than last year's similar period income by Birr 35.8 million or 54%. The registered increase in investment income was mainly due to interest income growth from fixed time deposit.

## PROFIT

<!-- image -->

During the period under review, the Company has registered Birr 144.5million profit before tax, which is higher than last year's similar period performance by Birr 65 million, or 83.7%.  The share of general insurance  stood  at  Birr  126.9million,  whereas  the  life  insurance  business  contributed  Birr  17.6million towards the total generated. Accordingly, earnings per share (EPS) of the Company stood at 21.4% compared to 15% registered in the previous financial year.

<!-- page 24 -->

Ethio RE Annual Report

<!-- image -->

## 4.2   NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

## IT PROJECT

<!-- image -->

As part of its strategy, the Company has paid special attention to acquiring state of the arttechnology in order to enhance its competitiveness and improve the quality of products and services it delivers. To this end, it has started implementation of the reinsurance and accounting software with SAP East Africa Limited and msg Global Solutions. It is believed that full-scale implementation of integrated reinsurance management and general ledger software will boost the quality of service of the Company.

<!-- image -->

Ethiop-Re  has  also  finalized  deployment  of  the  required  network  infrastructure  with  United  System Integrators (USI). The new technology and infrastructure, as part of the overall automation strategy of the business process of the Company will help in furthering the ongoing rating efforts.

## INVESTMENT

<!-- image -->

Within the limits set by the National Bank of Ethiopia (NBE) directives, Ethio Re needs to look at how to get high return by investing its excess funds in other areas of investment other than fixed time deposits. Accordingly, investment plan has been prepared and approved by the board of Directors to diversity investment options. To this end, the Company has purchased shares from United Bank with a total amount of Birr 50 million.  Moreover, equity shares have also been purchased from 'Addis - Africa International Convention and Exhibition Center (AAICEC) with a total amount of Birr 20 million;

## HUMAN RESOURCE STRATEGY AND PROFILE

<!-- image -->

Management has duly recognized the importance of building the capacity of staff in order to be able to deliver competitive reinsurance service. Accordingly, the Company has engaged consultants to conduct comprehensive review of the Company's Human Resource (HR)strategy aimed at developing a blueprint on how to build a competent and highly motivated workforce. Accordingly, the Company has at the final stage of the implementation of the HR Strategy following the approval granted by the Board.

<!-- image -->

Human Resources Strategy appraisal workshop

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

As a short-term intervention, various trainings were givento employees and management, on topics including strategic planning, communication skills and customer handling, enterprise risk management and governance, and technical accounting on job training.

Recruitment of two permanent employees was made during the year. At Ethio Re we believe that highly qualified and motivated staff is key to the success of our business. Our corporate and leadership culture  strongly  geared  to  performance  and  business  requirements  that  shapes  the  way  our  staff approach change, performance and training. There are currently 20 people working at Ethio-Re of

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 25 -->

which 50% are female (figures from 30 June 2019). All of them contribute to our success through their skill, performance and dedication. We are committed to investing in their development and provide all staff with equal opportunities and top-quality working conditions. We strive to recruit the best staff we can and equip them to deal with the global business of opportunities and risks.

## PRODUCING REPORTS IN LINE WITH INTERNATIONAL REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS)

<!-- image -->

IFRS, constitutes standards issued by the IFRS Foundation and the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) to provide a common global language for business affairs so that a company's accounts are transparent and comparable across international boundaries. The government of Ethiopia also enacted the IFRS proclamation and regulation in 2014. Accordingly, banks, insurance companies and public enterprises are obliged to comply with IFRS within the deadline starting from 2018.In line with this, Ethio-Re has been producing its financial statements from first year of establishment i.e. for the financial years 2016/17 ,2017/18 and 2018/19 in compliance with IFRS standards. The Board has also reviewed the performance of the Company on quarterly basis to track performance and take timely corrective measures.

## APPROVAL OF STRATEGIES, WORKING MANUALS, PROCEDURES AND GUIDELINES

<!-- image -->

The  Board  has  approved  the  working  manuals,  procedures  and  guidelines  of  the  Company  and implementation of same commenced. These includes the Hunan Resources Strategy and related documents, Internal Audit Policy and Procedure Manual, Risk Management Policy and Procedure, Customer Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy, Marketing and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) strategy, revised Finance Manual prepared as per the International Finance Reporting Standard (IFRS) requirements, among others.

## RETRO- PROGRAM ARRANGEMENT

<!-- image -->

Retro  program  arrangement  for  the  year  2019/20has  been  finalized  during  the  reporting  period. Comprehensive  retro  program  with  wider  geographical  coverage,  including  sub-Saharan  African markets has been concluded.

## BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT, PROMOTION AND COMMUNICATION

<!-- image -->

Participation in the African Insurance Organization (AIO) Annual Conference and General Assembly, Federation  of  Afro-Asian  Insurers  and  Reinsurers  (FAIR),  and  Organization  of  African  Insurers  and Reinsurers(OESAI). These  conferences  and  general  assemblies  are  annual  events  which  bring together insurance professionals from all over the continent and beyond to discuss insurance issues in addition to creating a forum to establish and/or reinforce business relationships. Throughout the year, representatives and delegates of Ethio-Re have attended all the forums and the events which presented unmatched platform to introduce our newly formed Company on the continental reinsurance arena.

<!-- image -->

Promotion  and  branding: As  regards  adoption  of  Company  logo  and  brand  identity,  so  far,  the Company has selected and adopted the Company logo and brand identity materials. The designs of Company logo and brand manuals are prepared by international design companies as per the specifications prepared by Ethio-Re. Taking the customary practices of reinsurers, Ethio-Re has been providing corporate gifts to its customers and has sponsored events organized by the AEI and others.

<!-- page 26 -->

<!-- image -->

Organizing market trainings on topical industry issues: So far, Ethio-Re. has organized and conducted local trainings in collaboration with Afro-Asian Insurance Brokers and APEX Insurance. The first training was  conducted  in  collaboration  with  Afro-Asian  Insurance  Brokers  under  the  theme  'Optimizing Renewal Negotiation' in which participants drawn from all local insurance companies took part.  The second training  designed  to  focus  on  'Life  Reinsurance:  Life  Treaties  and  Facultative  Placement' which was carried out in collaboration with APEX Insurance. The training was particularly designed to enhance the technical knowledge of staff of insurance companies whose primary duty involve the negotiation and placement of life reinsurance (treaty or facultative). The company has also organized workshop on Political Violence and Terrorism (PVT) Insurance, with professionals from Beazley Syndicate at Lloyds and Afro Asian Insurance Services, Business Partners Seminar conducted in collaboration with OMAN RE for participants drown from South and East Africa and local market and with Association of Ethiopian Insurers (AEI) on product development;Moreover, Ethio-Re has organized market training on the topic of 'Insurance Product Development Master class- Program 2019,with the Association of Ethiopian insurers (AEI).Ethio-Re would continue to organize similar trainings on topical industry issues in the future to develop the capacity of cedants in the future.

<!-- image -->

Master class training on Product Development

Business Partners Seminar (BPS): Training for regional customers and partners

<!-- image -->

Training on Political Violence and Terrorism (PVT)

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 27 -->

<!-- image -->

Consultation  forum  with  insurance  companies  and  the  regulator,  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia  (NBE): Ethio-Re believes that consultative forums with stakeholders serve asa spring board for creating and maintaining strong link. At the center of this endeavor is the discussion on the implications of cessation of compulsory policy cessions and what possible actions could be taken to mitigate the negative impact .As part of the effort to create sustainable business relationship with stakeholders, arranging regular discussion platforms with key partners lies at the heart of the communication strategy. To this end, the aim of the consultation forum will be to bring together stakeholders (insurance companies and the regulator) to kick start dialogues on key issues and build consensus on the possible courses of action to be adopted to overcome identified challenges.

## MARKET VISITS

<!-- image -->

Domestic: A  senior  management  team  led  by  the  CEO  has  visited  all  local  insurance  companies with the purpose of establishing smooth business relationships and to explore ways on how to boost business opportunities. Moreover, Finance and Admin manager together with Financial Accounting Unit Head has visited all insurance companies to expedite collection performance and create smooth business relationship.

<!-- image -->

International/Regional: as  a  new  Company,  Ethio-Re.  has  to  conduct  market  visits  to  promote  its brand and solicit business from specific target markets.  Business travelswould certainly help to boost understanding of the behavior of markets that the Company is planning to accept business from and also gather information on regulatory regimes. The market visits have definitely helped to build preliminary relationships with insurance companies and more importantly to introduce Ethio-Re. to players that presumably are potential sources of business.

Moreover, delegates have collected primary and secondary data from the respective regulatory  bodies, government offices, and insurance and reinsurance companies in addition to having discussions on the modalities and requirements of entering foreign markets. Accordingly, the Company has started to write businesses from overseas market although the lack of credit rating has had huge impact on its  ability to write more business. During the first and second year of the Company's operation, the Company was not able to write a single business from overseas market due to absence of credit rating and branding, limited geographic scope /restriction on its retro-program, which was subsequently improved to cover sub-Saharan African market. In the years ahead, the company would strengthen its relationship with customers and conducting rigorous markets visits would continue in target markets Corporate  Social  Responsibility  (CSR): ETHIO-RE  as  a  corporate  social  responsibility  has  started supporting acutely vulnerable children to access basic education each year through engaging itself in  national school feeding programs organized by government. The children who benefit from the Programme are disabled children structured by Ethiopian National Association of the Deaf (ENAD) Co-action school- Under the auspices of City Government of Addis Ababa Education Bureau. The children are drawn from extremely impoverished, broken families who would be unable to send them to school without support from outside sources.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 28 -->

<!-- image -->

Corporate Social Responsibility- participation in Green Legacy Project

<!-- image -->

School feeding program for Ethiopian Deaf Children

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 29 -->

Training  The  Board  of  Directors  of  Ethio-  Re: The  Company has  organized training for Board of Directors of Ethiopian Re in line with requirements of National Bank of Ethiopia's Insurance Corporate Governance Directive No.SIB/42/2015, and  Directive No. SIB/32/2012.The training, among  others, covered Risk management, Corporate governance, Basic reinsurance concepts and practices and Rating requirements for reinsurance companies.The training was arranged with the support of knowledgeable professionals from APEX insurance, in Dubai.

Membership of continental and local institutions: During the year under review, Ethio-Re has become an institutional member of Organization for Eastern and Southern African Insurers (OESAI), in addition to its membership of African Insurance Organization (AIO), Federation of Afro-Asian Insurers and Reinsurers (FAIR) and Association of Ethiopian Insurers (AEI).

## APPOINTMENT OF ACTUARY AND CONTACTING RATING AGENCIES

<!-- image -->

Credit rating: The Company has communicatedselected rating agencies, AM BEST and Global Credit Rating (GCR) as per the decision of the Board of Directors. Accordingly,information regarding rating time table(schedule), rating fees, and rating criteria were obtained. Discussions were held with rating companies (AM Best representatives) about rating methodology, procedures, time frame and rating fees.  The  company is  also  working  with  APEX  insurance  to  enable  it  fulfill  rating  requirements  and finalize the project within the action plan set.

<!-- image -->

Actuarial  services:  Ethio-Re.  envisages  developing  its  own  internal  actuarial  expertise  in  the  long run. However, in the short run, the Company has selected and engaged ACTSERV, a Kenyan based actuarial firm, to perform the required actuarial services.

## 5. FUTURE PLAN

Ethio-Re has developed and approved its first strategic plan covering the years 2016/17-2021/22. Accordingly, the Board of Directors and Senior Management have reviewed and approved the strategic plan which was later presented to the National Bank of Ethiopia. The strategic plan is in its third year of implementation.

During the subject year, the Company has been contributing its part for the macro-economic as well as sectoral development as mandated in its establishment objectives. So, it has been allocating its resources efficiently and effectively to implement the strategic initiatives envisioned for the period.

In the coming fiscal year, the Company will also gear up all its efforts towards the successful implementation of  all  prioritized  strategic  initiatives  to  significantly  sharpen  its  competitive  edge  in  view  of  the  changing business environment. In order to bear a leading role in offering reinsurance services as stated in its mission and vision statements, the Company will step up its efforts at developing the capacity of its work force, work on Company Rating, strengthen relationship with cedants and implement state of the art informationtechnology system. In the year 2019/20, the Company , among others, would focus on the following strategic initiatives:

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 30 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Developing  the  skill,  knowledge  and  capacity  of  the  workforce,  through  establishing  strategic partnership with renowned companies and professionals;

Employing experienced expatriate consultants to support the Management and build the capacity of employees;

- Finalizing the implementation of reinsurance and financial accounting software to ensure the competitiveness of the Company;
- Building the brand image of the Company and consolidating its income by promoting its services on continental and regional markets;
- Focus on investment diversification to consolidate the asset and earnings of the Company and engage resources  in  various  equity  shares  from  banks,  mining  industry,  government  privatization  projects, real-estate and building headquarters of the Company, and other available investment options;
- Increase the market share of the Company and implement comprehensive risk management program;
- Collect the outstanding capital subscription and working on the credit rating project;
- Consolidate the business relationship of the Company with ceding companies and other stakeholders;
- Working to strengthening the institutional capacity of the Company.

The implementation of these strategic initiatives are also expected to bring about a paradigm shift in the Company's overall business and operating models, which ultimately enable it to realize the desired goals by enhancingits competitive advantage.

## 6. RECOMMENDATION ON THE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT

<!-- image -->

During the financial year 2018/19, the Company has obtained an after tax profit of Birr 133.8million.

<!-- image -->

- The Board of Directors, therefore, recommends to the General Assembly of shareholders that Birr 119 million  be  distributed  to  shareholders  in  proportion  to  their  respective  shares  after  deducting  legal reserve and the remuneration of the Board of Directors.

## 7. AUDITORS

<!-- image -->

The  Audit  Services  Corporation  is  responsible  for  auditing  the  Company's  books  of  accounts  in accordance with the resolution of the Founder's Meeting that sanctioned the Corporation as External Auditors for the year ended 30 June 2019.

<!-- page 31 -->

## 8. VOTE OF THANKS

<!-- image -->

The Board of Directors, the Executive Management and employees would like to express their deepest gratitude  to  all  insurers  carrying  on  insurance  business  in  Ethiopia  and  other  stakeholders  for  their unreserved support and willingness to continue to do business with the Company.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

---------------------------------

Yewendwossen Eteffa Kumssa Chief Executive Officer

---------------------------------

Hailemariam Assefa Chairman of the Board of Directors

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 32 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 33 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 34 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 35 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 36 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 37 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 38 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 39 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 40 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 41 -->

<!-- image -->

## Notes to Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2019

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 42 -->

Ethio RE

Annual

Report

## 1. Reporting entity

Ethiopian  Reinsurance  Share  Company  ('The  Company')  is  a  reinsurance  company established  on  7  July  2016  with  the  objective  of  engaging  in  the  business  of  rendering general and long-term re-insurance services. The Company's registered office is located in the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Addis Ababa City, Kirkos Sub City, Woreda 9, and House No. New.

The registered office is the same as the principal place of business.

## 2. Basis of accounting

## (a) Statement of compliance

The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ('IFRS') as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board ('IASB').

<!-- page 43 -->

## (b) Functional and presentation currency

These financial statements are presented in Ethiopian Birr, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency. Except when otherwise stated, all amounts have been rounded to the nearest unit.

## (c) Use of judgments and estimates

In  preparing  these  financial  statements,  management  has  made  judgments,  estimates  and assumptions that affect the application of the Company's accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to estimates are recognized prospectively in the financial statements.

## Judgments

Information about judgments made in applying accounting policies that have the most significant effects on the amounts recognized in the financial statements is included in the following note.

Note 3 (f) - Leases: whether an arrangement contains a lease

## Assumptions and estimation uncertainties

Information on assumptions and uncertainty of estimates posing a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the year ending 30 June 2019 is included in the following notes

Note 3 (b) - measurement of insurance liabilities: Key actuarial assumptions

Note 17 (c) - measurement of employee benefits liability: Key actuarial assumptions

Note 3 (c) (viii) - identification and measurement of impairment for financial instruments;

Note 3 (e) (iii) - useful lives and salvage value of tangible assets;

Note 3 (i) (n),

Note 3 (m), Note 25 - recognition of deferred taxes: availability of future profits against which tax losses carried forward can be used Ethio RE Annual Report

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 44 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies

The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the period presented in these financial statements.

## (a) Foreign currency

## Foreign currency transactions

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currency of the Company at the exchange rates at the date of the transaction.

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate at the reporting date. The foreign currency gain or loss on monetary items is the difference between the amortized cost in the functional currency at the beginning of the year, adjusted for effective interest and payments during the year, and the amortized cost in the foreign currency translated at the spot exchange rate at the end of the year.

Non-monetary assets  and  liabilities  that  are  measured  at  fair  value  in  a  foreign  currency  are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date on which the fair value is determined. Non-monetary items that are measured based on historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.

## (b) Reinsurance contract

Reinsurance contracts are those contracts that transfer significant reinsurance risk.  Ethiopian Re defines reinsurance risk as the risk that it has to settle claims arising from reinsurance contracts held with cedant companies either from treaty reinsurance or facultative reinsurance.

The reinsurance contracts are classified into two main categories:

(i) General reinsurance business - This is for contract durations typically running for one year. The main classes covered in general insurance business are accident, aviation, burglary, engineering, employer liability, fire, goods in transit, liability, marine, medical, motor, and pecuniary.

<!-- page 45 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (b). Reinsurance contract (Continued)

(ii) Long term business This is for other business not considered as non-life business. The main classes covered in long term insurance business are term, endowment, whole life, permanent health and others.

## Recognition and measurement

The results of the reinsurance business are determined on an annual basis as follows:

## Premium income

Premiums and related expenses are accounted for in profit or loss when earned or incurred. Gross earned premiums comprise gross premiums relating to risks assumed in the year after accounting for  any movement in gross unearned premiums. Unearned premiums represent the proportion of the premiums written in the year that are attributable to the subsequent accounting period and are calculated using the one-over-eight method. Gross written premiums are recognized based upon reports from ceding companies. Statements of account are received on a quarterly basis where the statements of account are not received by the year-end, the estimates will be computed through the pipeline method.

## Claims incurred

Claims incurred comprise claims paid in the period and changes in the provision for outstanding claims. Claims paid represent all payments made during the period. Outstanding claims represent the  estimated  ultimate  cost  of  settling  all  claims  arising  from  incidents  occurring  prior  to  the reporting date, but not settled at that date. Outstanding claims are computed on the basis of preliminary loss advice from ceding companies and outstanding claims reports sent by cedants. They are also determined on the basis of historical expenses and actuarial analysis.

## Cedant acquisition costs and deferred acquisition costs

A proportion of cedant acquisition costs is deferred and amortized over the period in which the related premium is earned. Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of cedant acquisition costs and other acquisition costs that relate to the unexpired term of the policies that are in force at the year end.

<!-- page 46 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (b). Reinsurance contract (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## Liability adequacy test

At each reporting date, liability adequacy tests are performed to ensure the adequacy of the contract liabilities.  In  performing  these  tests,  current  best  estimates  of  future  contractual  cash flows  and  claims  handling  and  administration  expenses,  as  well  as  investment  income  from the assets backing such liabilities, are used. Any deficiency is immediately charged to profit or loss by establishing a provision for losses arising from liability adequacy tests (the unexpired risk provision). Long-term reassurance contracts are measured based on assumptions set out at the inception of the contract. When the liability adequacy test requires the adoption of new best estimate assumptions, such assumptions (without margins for adverse deviation) are used for the subsequent measurement of these liabilities.

## Retrocession contracts held

Contracts entered into by the Company with retrocessionaires under which it is compensated for  losses  on  one  or  more  contracts  issued  by  it  and  that  meet  the  classification  requirements for  retrocession  contracts  are  classified  as  retrocession  contracts  held.  Retrocession  premiums payable  are  recognized  in  the  period  in  which  the  related  premium  income  and  claims  are earned /incurred, respectively.

The benefits to which Ethiopian Re is entitled under its retrocession contracts held are recognized as retrocession assets. These assets consist of short-term balances due from retrocessionaires, as well as longer term receivables that are dependent on the expected claims and benefits arising under the related retrocession contracts. Amounts recoverable from or due to retrocessionaires are measured consistently with the amounts associated with the retrocession contracts and in accordance with the terms of each retrocession contract.

Retrocession  liabilities  are  primarily  premiums  payable  for  retrocession  contracts  and  are recognized as an expense when due.

Ethiopian Re assesses its retrocession assets for impairment annually. If there is objective evidence that  the  retrocession  assets  are  impaired,  the  Company  reduces  the  carrying  amounts of the retrocession assets to its recoverable amount and recognizes that impairment loss in profit or loss.

## Receivable and payables related to reinsurance contracts

Receivables and payables are recognized when due. These include amounts due to and from cedants and brokers.

<!-- page 47 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (b). Reinsurance contract (Continued)

## Receivable and payables related to reinsurance contracts - Continued

If there is objective evidence that the reinsurance receivable is impaired, Ethiopian Re reduces the carrying amount of the reinsurance receivable accordingly and recognizes the impairment loss in profit or loss. An asset is deemed impaired if there is objective evidence, as a result of an event that occurred after its initial recognition, that the Company may not recover all amounts due.

Receivables, together with the associated allowance are written off when there is no realistic prospect of future recovery. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because of an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. If a write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to finance costs in the statement of profit or loss.

## (c) Financial assets and financial liabilities

## (i) Classification

## Financial assets

The Company classifies its financial assets into one of the following categories:

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

- Amortized cost;
- Fair value through comprehensive income; and
- At fair value through profit or loss.

<!-- image -->

## Amortized cost

A financial asset is classified as subsequently measured at amortized cost if it:

<!-- image -->

- meets the SPPI criterion (whether the contractual terms of the financial assets give rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are Solely for Payment of Principal and Interest); and
- is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows.

<!-- image -->

## Fair value through Other Comprehensive Income (FVOCI)

A financial asset is classified as subsequently measured at FVOCI if it:

<!-- image -->

- meets the SPPI criterion (whether the contractual terms of the financial assets give rise, on specified dates, to cash flows that are Solely for Payment of Principal and Interest); and
- is  held  within  a  business  model  in  which  assets  are  managed  both  in  order  to  collect contractual cash flows and for sale.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 48 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## (i) Classification - continued

## Fair value through profit or loss

All  other  financial  assets  i.e.  financial  assets  that  do  not  meet  the  criteria  for  classification  as subsequently  measured  at  amortized  cost  or  FVOCI  are  subsequently  measured  at  fair  value through profit or loss, with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss.

## Financial liabilities

The Company classifies its financial liabilities as measured at amortized cost or fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities can be designated at FVTPL if managed on a fair value basis or it is eliminated or reduced if an accounting mismatch.

## (ii) Recognition

The  Company  recognizes  financial  instruments  when  the  Company  becomes  a  party  to  the contractual provisions of the instrument

All financial instruments are initially measured at fair value plus or minus transaction costs, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss,.

## (iii) Derecognition

## Financial assets

The  Company  derecognizes  a  financial  asset  when  the  contractual  rights  to  the  cash  flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred or in which the Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it does not retain control of the financial asset.

<!-- page 49 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued)

## (viii) Derecognition  - Continued

On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset (or the carrying amount allocated to the portion of the asset derecognized) and the sum of:

- a) the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and
- b) any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognized in OCI

In transactions in which the Company neither retains nor transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards  of  ownership  of  a  financial  asset  and  it  retains  control  over  the  asset,  the  Company continues to recognize the asset to the extent of its continuing involvement, determined by the extent to which it is exposed to changes in the value of the transferred asset.

## Financial liabilities

The Company derecognizes a financial liability when its contractual obligations are  discharged or canceled or expire.

## (iv)  Modifications of financial assets and financial liabilities

## Financial assets

If the terms of a financial asset are modified, the Company evaluates whether the cash flows of the modified asset are substantially different. If the cash flows are substantially different, then the contractual rights to cash flows from the original financial asset are deemed to have expired. In this case, the original financial asset is derecognized and a new financial asset is recognized at fair value.

If the terms of a financial asset were modified because of financial difficulties of the borrower and the asset was not derecognized, then impairment of the asset was measured using the pre-modification interest rate.

<!-- page 50 -->

Ethio RE Annual Report

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued)

(viii) Modifications of financial assets and financial liabilities  - Continued

## Financial liabilities

The Company derecognizes a financial liability when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are substantially different. In this case, a new financial liability based on the modified terms is recognized at fair value. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished and the new financial liability with modified terms is recognized in profit or loss.

## (v) Offsetting

Financial  assets  and  liabilities  are  offset  and  the  net  amount  is  presented  in  the  statement  of financial position when, and only when, the Company has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Income and expenses are presented on a net basis only when permitted under IFRS, or for gains and losses arising from a group of similar transactions such as in the Company's trading activity.

## (vi)  Amortized cost measurement

The 'amortized cost' of a financial asset or financial liability is the amount at which the financial asset or financial liability  is  measured at initial  recognition, minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative amortization using the effective interest method of any difference between the initial amount recognized and the maturity amount, minus any reduction for impairment.

## (vii)  Fair value measurement

'Fair value' is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date in the principal or, in its absence, the most advantageous market to which the Company has access at that date. The fair value of a liability reflects its non-performance risk.

<!-- page 51 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued)

(viii) Fair value measurement  - Continued

When available, the Company measures the fair value of an instrument using the quoted price in an active market for that instrument. A market is regarded as active if transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis.

If  there  is  no  quoted  price  in  an  active  market, then the Company uses valuation techniques that maximize the use of relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The chosen valuation technique incorporates all of the factors that market participants would consider in pricing a transaction.

If there is no active market or no observable prices to measure the Company's financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value, the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities is determined at each reporting date for disclosure in the financial statement purposes only.

## (viii) Impairment

The Company recognizes loss allowances for Expected Credit Losses (ECLs) on

<!-- image -->

Financial assets measured at amortized cost;

Lifetime expected credit losses are the losses that result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument, whereas 12-month ECLs are the portion of ECLs that results from default events that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.

In all cases, the maximum period considered when estimating expected credit loss is the maximum contractual period over which the Company is exposed to credit risk.

## Measurement of expected credit losses

Expected credit losses are a probability-weighed estimate of credit losses and are measures as follows:

<!-- image -->

- Financial assets that are not credit-impaired at the reporting date: the present value of all cash shortfalls- i.e. the difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Company expects to receive; and
- Financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date: the difference between the gross carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 52 -->

<!-- image -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

(viii) Impairment - Continued

## Credit-impaired financial assets

At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether financial assets measured at amortized cost and debt investments at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes the following observable data:

- Significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer;
- A breach of contract such as a default or past-due date;
- The restructuring of an amount due to the Company on terms that the Company would not otherwise consider;
- It  becoming  probable  that  the  borrower  will  enter  bankruptcy  or  other  financial  reorganization; or
- The disappearance of an active market for a security because of financial difficulties.

A financial asset that has been renegotiated due to a deterioration in the borrower's condition is usually considered to be credit-impaired unless there is evidence that the risk of not receiving contractual cash flows has reduced significantly and there are no other indicators of impairment.

In assessing whether an investment in sovereign debt is credit-impaired, the Company considers the following factors:

- The market's assessment of creditworthiness as reflected in the bond yields;
- The rating agencies' assessments of creditworthiness;
- The country's ability to access the capital markets for new debt insurance;
- The probability of debt being restricted, resulting in holders suffering losses through voluntary or mandatory debt forgiveness; and

<!-- page 53 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (c). Financial assets and financial liabilities (Continued)

(viii) Impairment - Continued

<!-- image -->

The international support mechanisms in place to provide the necessary support as 'lender of  last  resort'  to  that  country,  as  well  as  the  intention,  reflected  in  public  statements,  of governments and agencies to use those mechanisms, including an assessment of the depth of those mechanisms and; irrespective of the political intent, whether there is the capacity to fulfil the required criteria.

## Presentation of loss allowances in the statement of financial position

Loss allowances for expected credit losses are presented as follows:

<!-- image -->

Financial assets measured at amortized cost: the loss allowance is deducted from the gross

- carrying amount of the assets; and

<!-- image -->

Debt investments measured at FVOCI: the loss allowance is recognized in OCI.

## Write-off

The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Company determines that the borrower does not have assets or sources of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Company's procedure for recovery of amounts due.

<!-- page 54 -->

Ethio RE Annual Report

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (d) Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand, cash at banks in current and deposit accounts and short term, highly liquid investments with maturity periods of three months or less.

According to IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements, cash funds, that for some reason are restricted and may not be exchanged or used to settle a liability for a period of at least twelve months are excluded from the balance of cash and cash equivalents and classified as restricted cash in the separate statements of financial position for each of the periods presented.

Cash and cash equivalents are carried at amortized cost in the statement of financial position.

## (e) Property, plant and equipment (PPE)

## (i) Recognition and measurement

Items  of  property,  plant  and  equipment  are  measured  at  cost,  which  includes  capitalized borrowing costs, less accumulated depreciation and cumulative impairment losses.

If significant parts of an item of property or equipment have different useful lives, then they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property and equipment.

Any gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment, and are recognized net within operating and administrative expenses in profit or loss.

## (ii) Subsequent costs

Subsequent expenditure is capitalized only when it is probable that the future economic benefits of the expenditure will flow to the Company. Ongoing repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.

<!-- page 55 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (e) Property, plant and equipment (Continued)

## (iii) Depreciation

Depreciation is  calculated  to  write  off  the  cost  of  items  of  property  and  equipment  less  their estimated residual values using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives, and is generally recognized in profit or loss. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Company will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Land is not depreciated.

The estimated useful lives of significant items of property, plant and equipment are as follows:

| PPE Class          | Depreciation rates   | Residual values (% on cost)   |
|--------------------|----------------------|-------------------------------|
| Building           | 5%                   | 25%                           |
| Computer equipment | 25%                  | 1%                            |
| Office equipment   | 20%                  | 1%                            |
| Office furniture   | 10%                  | 1%                            |
| Motor vehicles     | 14%                  | 25%                           |
| Office partitions  | 20%                  | 1%                            |

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each financial year-end and adjusted if appropriate.

Since all property and equipment of the Company are new and in good conditions, the assets carrying amount is assumed to be equivalent to the recoverable amount, thus the items are not impaired during the year.

Minor repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.

## (f)  Leases

## (i) Company acting as a lessee

At inception, the Company determines whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

At the commencement date, the Company recognizes a right-of-use asset at cost and a lease liability  at  the  present  value  of  the  lease  payments  that  are  not  paid  at  that  date.  The  lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the incremental borrowing rate.

<!-- page 56 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (f) Leases (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## (i) Company acting as a lessee - Continued

After the commencement date, the Company measures the right-of-use asset applying the cost model (cost less any cumulative depreciation and any cumulative impairment). In the case of the lease liability, the Company measures it by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability, reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made, and re-measuring the carrying amount to reflect any reassessment or lease modifications or to reflect revised in-substance fixed lease payments.

## (ii) Company acting as a lessor - Finance leases

Where the Company is the lessor, the Company classifies each of its leases as either an operating lease or a finance lease.

## Finance lease

If a lease agreement transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the asset to the lessee, then the arrangement is classified as a finance lease and a receivable equal to the net investment in the lease is recognized and presented within receivable.

At the commencement date, the Company recognizes assets held under a finance lease in its statement of financial position and presents them as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. After the initial measurement, the Company recognize finance income over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of return on the lessor's net investment in the lease.

## Operating lease

The Company recognizes lease payments from operating leases as income on either a straight-line basis or another systematic basis. The Company applies another systematic basis if that basis is more representative of the pattern in which benefit from the use of the underlying asset is diminished.

<!-- page 57 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (g) Intangible assets

## (i) Software

Software acquired by the Company is measured at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses.

Subsequent  expenditure  on  software  assets  is  capitalized  only  when  it  increases  the  future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.  All  other  expenditure  is expensed as incurred.

Software is amortized on a straight-line basis in profit or loss over its estimated useful life, from the date on which it is available for use. The estimated useful life of software is 10 years.

Amortization methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.

Amortization of intangible Asset is 10%

## (h) Impairment of non-financial assets

At each reporting date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its non-financial assets (other than deferred tax assets) to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset's recoverable amount is estimated.

For impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that is largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets namely Cash Generating Units (CGU's).

The 'recoverable amount' of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. 'Value in use' is based on the estimated future cash flows, discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU.

An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.

<!-- page 58 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (h) Impairment of non-financial assets Ethio RE Annual Report

The Company's corporate assets do not generate separate cash inflows and are used by more than one CGU. Corporate assets are allocated to CGUs on a reasonable and consistent basis and tested for impairment as part of the testing of the CGUs to which the corporate assets are allocated.

Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. They are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of other assets in the CGU on a pro rata basis.

For other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.

## (i) Provisions

A provision  is  recognized  if,  as  a  result  of  a  past  event,  the  Company  has  a  present  legal  or constructive  obligation  that  can  be  estimated  reliably,  and  it  is  probable  that  an  outflow  of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation

## (j)  Employee benefits

## (i) Defined benefit plans

A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan at the termination of the employment relationship, other than a defined contribution plan. The Company accounts not only for its legal obligation under the formal term describe above, but also for any constructive obligation that arise from the Company´s customary practices. A customary practice give arise to a constructive obligation where the Company has no realistic alternatives but to pay employee benefits.

The Company's net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and any unrecognized past service costs and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.  The discount rate to be used is normally based on the yield on long-term corporate bonds, or in the absence of that, the yield on long-term Government bonds. Due to lack of a liquid market for long term bonds in Ethiopia, including government bonds, the discount rate used in the current year was based on the rate of return of one-year fixed term deposits as determined by an independent actuary.

<!-- page 59 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (j) Employee benefits - Continued

## (i) Defined benefit plans - Continued

The  calculation  is  performed  annually  by  a  qualified  actuary  using  the  projected  unit  credit method. When the benefits of a plan are improved, the portion of the increased benefit relating to past service by employees is recognized in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. To the extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is recognized immediately in profit or loss.

The Company recognizes all actuarial gains and losses arising from defined benefit plans in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

## (ii) Defined contribution plans

Obligations for contributions to defined contribution plans are expensed as the related services is provided. Prepaid contributions are regarded as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in future payments is available.

## (iii) Short-term benefits

Short-term  employee  benefit  obligations  are  measured  on  an  undiscounted  basis  and  are expensed as the related services are provided, considering current wages.

Liability is recognized for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash and include mainly wages and salaries, bonuses, leave benefits and other allowances to pay this amount as a result of past services provided by the employees, and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

## (iv)  Other long-term benefits

Other long-term employee benefits are all employee benefits other than short-term employee benefits, post-employment benefits and termination benefits.

The Company's net obligation in terms of long term benefits employee benefits is the amount of  future  benefits  that  employees  have  earned  in  return  for  their  services  in  the  current  and prior  periods.  That  benefit  is  discounted  to  determine  its  present  value.  Re-measurements  are recognized in the profit or loss in the period in which they arise.

<!-- page 60 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued) (j) Employee benefits - Continued Ethio RE Annual Report

## (v) Termination benefits

Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of when the Company can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits and when the Company recognizes costs for a restructuring. If benefits are  not  expected  to  be  wholly  settled  within  12  months  of  the  reporting  date,  then  they  are discounted.

## (k)   Legal reserve

According to the Proclamation No.746/2012, any insurer shall, at the end of the financial year, transfer to its legal reserve an amount not less than 10% of its net profit until such reserves equals it's paid up capital. The Company's policy is to transfer 10% of its net profit to the legal reserve.

## (l) Statutory deposit

A statutory deposit amounting to 15% of the paid up capital must be maintained with the National Bank of Ethiopia. This deposit or part thereof may not be withdrawn or be used as a pledge or security for any loan except with the written permission of the National Bank of Ethiopia.

The National Bank of Ethiopia allows a re-insurer to maintain statutory deposits either in cash or in the form of government securities. (Article 21 of Insurance Business Proclamation 746/2012). The bond certificates are held by the National Bank of Ethiopia.

Ethiopian Re has classified the statutory deposit as a financial asset at amortised cost.

## (m)   Income tax

Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. It is recognized in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity or in OCI.

## (i) Current tax

The current income tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year. The amount of current tax payable is the best estimate of tax expected to be paid and that reflects the uncertainty related to income taxes, if any. It is measured using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at the reporting date.

<!-- page 61 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (m)  Income tax  - Continued

## (ii) Deferred tax

Deferred tax is measured under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between such values. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to temporary differences when recovered or settled based on laws enacted or substantially enacted as of the reporting date

No deferred taxes are recognized for the initial recognition of an asset or a liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable income.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority and to the same fiscal entity or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realized simultaneously.

A deferred tax asset is recognized for unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which such can be reversed. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realized.

## (n) Contingencies

Liabilities for loss contingencies are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount thereof can be reasonably estimated.  When a reasonable estimation cannot be made, disclosure is provided in the notes to the financial statements. Contingent revenues, earnings or assets are not recognized until realization is assured.

<!-- page 62 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (o) Finance income and finance costs

The  Company's  financial  income  and  finance  cost  include  interest  income,  interest  expense, dividend income, foreign exchange gains or losses and impairment losses on investments. Interest income or expense is recognised using the effective interest rate method. Dividend income is recognised in profit  or  loss  on  the  date  on  which  the  Company's  right  to  receive  payment  is established.

The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset or the amortised cost of the financial liability.

## (p) Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. Capitalisation of borrowing costs ceases when substantially all activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are complete. Other costs are expensed when incurred. The Company did not have any borrowings as at 30 June 2019.

## (q) Share based payments

The  grant-date  fair  value  of  equity-settled  share-based  payment  arrangements  granted  to employees is generally recognised as an expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the vesting period of the awards. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market performance conditions are expected to be met, such that the amount ultimately recognised is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with non-vesting conditions, the grant-date fair value of  the  share-based  payment  is  measured  to  reflect  such  conditions  and  there  is  no  true-up for  differences  between  expected  and  actual  outcomes.  The  Company  did  not  have  any share-based payments as at 30 June 2019.

<!-- page 63 -->

## (r)  New Standards, amendments and interpretations

## (i) Early adopted standards and interpretations

The company has decided to early adoption of the under listed standards and has applied them in preparing this financial statement:

## New standard or amendments

IFRS 9 - Financial Instruments

IFRS 16 - Leases

IAS 7- Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to IAS 7)

IAS 12- Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for unrealized losses (Amendments to IAS 12)

<!-- image -->

## (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted during the year ended 30 June 2019

IFRIC 22 Foreign currency Transaction and Advance Consideration

The interpretation, Applicable to annual periods beginning on or after 1 st  January 2018, addresses foreign currency transactions or parts of transaction where there is consideration that is dominated or priced in a foreign currency. It provides guidance for when a single payment/receipt is made as well as for situation where multiple payment /receipt are made.

<!-- page 64 -->

<!-- image -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (r) New Standards, amendments and interpretations (Continued)

- (iii) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted during the year ended 30 June 2019 - Continued

A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are not yet effective for the year ended 30 June 2019, and have not been applied in preparing these financial statements. These are summarized as follows:

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

| New standards or amendments                                                                                 | Effective for annual periods beginning on or after   |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments                                              | 1 January 2019                                       |
| Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IFRS 9                                         | 1 January 2019                                       |
| AIP IFRS 3 Business Combinations - Previously held Interests in a joint operation                           | 1 January 2019                                       |
| AIP IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements - Previously held Interests in a joint operation 14                          | 1 January 2019                                       |
| AIP IAS 12 Income Taxes - Income tax consequences of payments on financial instruments classified as equity | 1 January 2019                                       |
| Insurance Contracts - IFRS 17                                                                               | 1 January 2021                                       |
| AIP IAS 23 Borrowing Costs - Borrowing costs eligible for capitalization                                    | 1 January 2019                                       |
| Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement Amendments to IAS 19                                              | 1 January 2019                                       |

<!-- page 65 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (r) New Standards, amendments and interpretations (Continued)

- (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted during the year ended 30 June 2019 - Continued

The above standards and interpretations, with the exception of IFRS 17 amendments for IFRS 9 are not applicable to the business of the Company and will, therefore, have no impact on future financial statements. The Directors are of the opinion that the impact of the applicable standards and interpretations will be as follows:

## Insurance Contracts (IFRS 17)

IFRS 17 was issued in May 2017 as replacement for IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. It requires a current measurement model where estimates are  re-measured  each  reporting  period.  Contracts  are measured using the building blocks of:

- (a) discounted probability-weighted cash flows;
- (b) an explicit risk adjustment, and
- (c) a  contractual  service  margin  ('CSM')  representing  the  unearned  profit  of  the  contract which is recognised as revenue over the coverage period.

The standard allows a choice between recognising changes in discount rates either in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income. The choice is likely to reflect how insurers account for their financial assets under IFRS 9.

An optional, simplified premium allocation approach is permitted for the liability for the remaining coverage for short duration contracts, which are often written by non-life insurers.

There is a modification of the general measurement model called the 'variable fee approach' for certain contracts written by life insurers where policyholders share in the returns from underlying items. When applying the variable fee approach the Company's share of the fair value changes of the underlying items is included in the contractual service margin. The results of insurers using this model are therefore likely to be less volatile than under the general model.

<!-- page 66 -->

<!-- image -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (o) New Standards, amendments and interpretations (Continued)

- (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted during the year ended 30 June 2019 - Continued

The new rules will affect the financial statements and key performance indicators of all entities that issue insurance contracts or investment contracts with discretionary participation features.

The standard is effective for annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2021 with retrospective application, early adoption permitted.

The  Company  is  assessing  the  potential  impact  on  its  financial  statements  resulting  from  the application of IFRS 17.

## Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments to IFRS 4)

The  amendments  in  Applying  IFRS  9  'Financial  Instruments'  with  IFRS  4  'Insurance  Contracts' (Amendments to IFRS 4) provide two options for entities that issue insurance contracts within the scope of IFRS 4:

<!-- image -->

- an option that permits entities to reclassify, from profit or loss to other comprehensive income, some of the income or expenses arising from designated financial assets; this is the so-called overlay approach;
- an  optional  temporary  exemption  from  applying  IFRS  9  for  entities  whose  predominant
- activity is issuing contracts within the scope of IFRS 4; this is the so-called deferral approach.

<!-- image -->

The application of both approaches is optional and an entity is permitted to stop applying them before the new insurance contracts standard is applied.

An entity applies the overlay approach retrospectively to qualifying financial assets when it first applies IFRS 9. Application of the overlay approach requires disclosure of sufficient information to enable users of financial statements to understand how the amount reclassified in the reporting period is calculated and the effect of that reclassification on the financial statements.

An entity applies the deferral approach for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.

<!-- page 67 -->

## 3. Significant accounting policies (Continued)

## (o) New Standards, amendments and interpretations (Continued)

- (ii) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted during the year ended 30 June 2019 - Continued

Predominance is assessed at the reporting entity level at the annual reporting date that immediately precedes 1 April 2016. Application of the deferral approach needs to be disclosed together with information that enables users of financial statements to understand how the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption and to compare insurers applying the temporary exemption with entities  applying  IFRS  9.  The  deferral  can  only  be  made  use  of  for  the  three  years  following  1 January 2019. Predominance is only reassessed if there is a change in the entity's activities.

The Company has adopted IFRS 9 early and therefore the above amendment has no impact.

Amendments  to  IFRS  'financial  Instruments  'on  prepayment  Features  with  Negative Compensation Effective  for  annual  Periods  Beginning  on  or  after  1 st  January  2019.The amendment covers two issues.

What financial assets may be measured at amortized cost. The amendment permits more assets to be measured at amortized cost than under the previous version of IFRS 9, in particular some repayable financial assets. It is likely to have the biggest impact on banks and other financial services entities and be broadly welcomed by companies.

How to account for the modification of financial liability. The amendment confirms that most such modifications will result in immediate recognition of a gain or loss. tis is a change from common practice under IAS 39 today and will affect all kinds of entities that have renegotiated borrowing.

## 4. Financial risk review

Reinsurance contracts expose the Company to underwriting risk, which comprises insurance risk, policyholder behavior risk and expense risk.

In  addition,  the  Company  is  exposed  to  financial  and  operational  risks  from  insurance  and reinsurance contracts and financial instruments. Financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk. Market risk comprises currency risk, interest rate risk and another price risk.

<!-- page 68 -->

Ethio RE

Annual

Report

## 4.  Financial risk review - (Continued) Financial risk review - (Continued)

This note presents information about the Company's risk exposure, and the Company's objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk and managing capital.

## Risk management framework

The Company's board of directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of  the  Company's  risk  management  framework.  The  Board  of  Directors  oversees  that  the  risk management  process  is  designed  and  implemented  in  line  with  the  Company's  corporate strategy.    The  Board  Risk  and  Compliance  Committee  (BRCC)  is  responsible  for  developing and monitoring the Company's risk management policies and reports regularly to the board of directors on its activities.

The BRCC has direct access to all the Company's information and receives regular reports from management.

The  company  has  also  an  independent  unit  called  Risk  and  Compliance  service  ,which  is accountable to the Board of Directors BRCC .There is also risk Management committee of the management who develops and monitors the enterprise  wide  risk  management  practice  on corporate level.

Key risks arising from reinsurance contracts and financial instruments include:

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

- Underwriting risk
- Market risk
- Credit risk
- Liquidity risk
- Operational risk

<!-- page 69 -->

## 4.  Financial risk review - (Continued)

## Underwriting risk

Underwriting risk comprises; insurance risk, retro-cession risk and technical reserve risk.

Insurance risk is the risk of loss on underwriting activities that may arise from acceptance of business that is not in the scope of Ethiopian-Re acceptable business.

Retrocession  risk:  Retrocession  risk  is  a  risk  of  loss  that  emanates  from  failure  to  arrange  an appropriate retrocession program.

Technical reserves risk is the risk of insufficient technical reserves being held by the Company.

## Management of underwriting risk

The  Company  reinsures  all  classes  of  insurance  business  including:  Accident  and  Health, Engineering, Guarantee, Liability, Motor, Fire, Marine, Energy, Aviation, Disability and Life. The bulk of the business written is short term in nature.

The risk under any one insurance contract is two-fold: underwriting - the possibility that the insured event occurs, and reserving - the uncertainty of the amount of the resulting claim.

The Company has developed a detailed underwriting manual covering risk acceptance criteria, pricing,  accumulation  control,  authority  levels,  and  reinsurance  protection,  among  others.  It guides the underwriters in their acceptances, on the principles of prudence and professionalism within the overall objective of diversifying the type of insurance risks accepted and within each of these categories to achieve a sufficiently large population of risks to reduce the variability of the expected outcome. The priority is to ensure adherence to criteria for risk selection by maintaining high levels of experience and expertise among the underwriting staff.

An independent department, Audit, Risk and Compliance Management, ensures adherence to these guidelines through periodic review of the activities of operations. The reports of the review are submitted to management and the Audit and Risks Committee of the Board.

<!-- page 70 -->

<!-- image -->

## 4.  Financial risk review (Continued)

## (a) Underwriting risk (Continued)

The Company enters into retrocession arrangements with reputable retrocession Aires to diversify its risks and reduce the risk of catastrophic loss on reinsurance assumed. The retrocession does not relieve the Company of its obligations to the ceding companies. As part of its annual renewals, the financial condition of retrocession Aires is reviewed. As a result, retrocession is placed with a select group of financially secure and experienced companies in the business.

The retrocession arrangements existing as at 30 June 2019 are as follows:

| Class of Business                                                                                                                                                                                                                                | Gross exposure (ETB)   | Net exposure (ETB)   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|------------------------|----------------------|
| Fire and engineering risk gross account excess of loss                                                                                                                                                                                           | 400,000,000            | 25,000,000           |
| Fire and engineering catastrophe gross account excess of loss treaty                                                                                                                                                                             | 1,800,000,000          | 25,000,000           |
| Marine cargo and hull gross excess of loss treaty                                                                                                                                                                                                | 90,000,000             | 15,000,000           |
| Motor, Liability, General TPL, Product liability Professional indemnity, Workmen's compensation, Accident (PA/GPA),Travel accident / Fidelity guarantee/Burglary/Money/Plate glass /All risk and Bonds gross account excess of loss retro treaty | 35,000,000             | 5,000,000            |
| Aviation Quota share retro treaty.                                                                                                                                                                                                               | USD 1,500,000          | USD 450,000          |

## Concentration of underwriting risk

The Company's concentration of reinsurance risk is determined by class of business. The shared characteristic that identifies each concentration is the insured event and the key indicator which is the gross premium as disclosed in note 20.

As can be observed from the above table the share of motor class of business is reduced by 2% to 38% from its last year position, which is a good sign to balance undue concentration among class of business.

<!-- page 71 -->

## 4.  Financial risk review (Continued)

## (a) Market risk

Market risk is the risk that changes in the market prices - e.g. foreign exchange rates and equity prices will affect the fulfilment of cash flows of insurance and reinsurance contracts as well as the fair value of future cash flows of financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters while optimizing the return on risk.

Market  risk  principally  arises  on  the  Company's  interest-bearing  financial  assets  and  financial liabilities denoted in foreign currencies. The nature of the Company's reinsurance contracts and financial instruments means that it is exposed to market risk in the form of interest rate risk and currency rate risk. The Company is not exposed to equity risk because it does not have any equity investments.

## Management of market risk

Ethiopian Re manages market risk based on the diversification of investments within the framework of Proclamation No. 746/2012 article 25 and subject to the future issuance of directives, prescribing investments of insurers, by National Bank of Ethiopia.

The Company's investment plan is devised on a yearly basis based on the strategic investment direction given by the Board of directors and NBE's investment directives which specifies investment in treasury bills, fixed time deposits, shares etc.

## (i) Interest rate risk

The  Company's  exposure  to  interest  rate  changes  is  primarily  concentrated  in  the  actively managed fixed income portfolio, which is reported at fair  value.  Changes  in  interest  rate  will have  an  immediate  impact  on  the  Company's  reported  net  income  and  consequently  the shareholders' funds.

<!-- page 72 -->

<!-- image -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (b) Market risk (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## (i) Interest rate risk - Continued

|                | Gen. Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019    |
|----------------|-----------------|----------------------|---------------|
| Abyssinia Bank | 1 64,808,01 5   | 27,861 ,256          | 1 92,669,271  |
| AddisInternat  | 1 2,435,980     |                      | 1 2,435,980   |
| Awash Internat | 1 96,240,81 3   | 1 8,1 56,1 02        | 21 4,396,91 5 |
| Buna Internati |                 |                      | -             |
| Coop. Bank Of  | 42,727,498      |                      | 42,727,498    |
| Dashen Bank    | 1 25,91 6,41 9  | 23,925,729           | 1 49,842,1 48 |
| Nib Internatio | 1 08,61 2,631   | 1 0,869,445          | 1 1 9,482,076 |
| Oromia Interna | 1 65,797,533    |                      | 1 65,797,533  |
| United Bank    | 1 6,697,1 62    |                      | 1 6,697,1 62  |
| Wegagen Bank   | 50,256,970      | 5,624,877            | 55,881 ,847   |
|                | 883,493,022     | 86,437,409           | 969,930,431   |

| Bond Description   | Bond Principa l amount 30- Jun- 19   | Bond Principa l amount 30- Jun- 19   | Bond Principa l amount 30- Jun- 19   |
|--------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|
|                    | General Ins                          | Life Ins                             | Total                                |
| Government Bond    | 79,249,1 50.00                       | 1 1 ,687,625.00                      | 90,936,775.00                        |
| Total              | 79,249,150.00                        | 11,687,625.00                        | 90,936,775.00                        |

<!-- page 73 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (b) Market risk (Continued)

## (i) Interest rate risk - Continued

An analysis of the Company's sensitivity to a 0.5% parallel increase or decrease in market interest rates at the reporting date, assuming all other variables remain constant is shown below:

| Financial Instruments   | Effect on Profit/Loss   | Effect on Profit/Loss   | Effect on Equity   | Effect on Equity   |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
|                         | 0.5% increase           | 0.5% decrease           | 0.5% increase      | 0.5% decrease      |
| Time deposits           | 4,849,652               | (4,849,652)             | 4,849,652          | (4,849,652)        |
| Government Bond         | 454,683.88              | (454,683.88)            | 454,683.88         | (454,683.88)       |
| Total                   | 5,304,336               | (5,304,336)             | 5,304,336          | (5,304,336)        |

## (ii) Equity price risk

Equity price risk refers to the potential loss in fair value resulting from adverse changes in the fair value of stocks that the Corporation has invested in. The Company did not have investments in equity as at 30 June 2019.

## (iii) Currency risk

The  Company  is  exposed  to  currency  risk  to  the  extent  that  currencies  in  which  reinsurance contracts are denominated differ from functional currency of the Company. These contracts are primarily denominated in US Dollars.

The summary quantitative information about the Company's exposure to currency risk arising from reinsurance contracts at the reporting date was as follows:

<!-- page 74 -->

<!-- image -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued)

## (b) Market risk (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## (i) Currency risk- Continued

| Reinsurance contracts            | 2019       |
|----------------------------------|------------|
|                                  | USD        |
| Reinsurance assets (receivables) | 51,694.24  |
| Reinsurance liability (payables) | 819,073.33 |

A reasonably possible strengthening or weakening of the Ethiopian Birr against the US Dollar at the reporting date would have affected the measurement of insurance and reinsurance contracts and financial instruments and affected the profit or loss and equity by the amounts shown below: The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.

| Reinsurance contracts   | Effect on Profit/Loss   | Effect on Profit/Loss   | Effect on Equity   | Effect on Equity   |
|-------------------------|-------------------------|-------------------------|--------------------|--------------------|
|                         | 10% Strengthening       | 10% Weakening           | 10% Strengthening  | 10% Weakening      |
| Payables                | (151,875.09)            | 151,875.09              | (151,875.09)       | 151,875.09         |
| Receivables             | 2,349,143.26            | (2,349,143.26)          | 2,349,143.26       | (2,349,143.26)     |
| Total (ETB)             | 2,197,268.17            | (2,197,268.17)          | 2,197,268.17       | (2,197,268.17)     |

The following exchange rate has been applied

## 2019

## Closing rate

USD 1 = Buying Br 28.6805

Selling     29.3795

## (b) Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial instrument will fail to discharge an obligation and cause the other party to incur a financial loss. The Company is exposed to credit risk through its financial assets, which include bank deposits, fixed time deposits and receivables.

<!-- page 75 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (c) Credit risk (Continued)

## Management of credit risk

Ethiopian-Re's  credit  risk  philosophy  considers  ceding  companies  adhere  to  the  reinsurance terms and conditions and submit statements of account and settle premiums due on time. Any investment undertaken by Ethiopian-Re shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of the principal investment.

Bank deposits are placed within local Ethiopian banks and are spread over several banks to avoid undue concentration.

Credit risk relating to receivables is mitigated by the large number of cedants and limited only in Ethiopia. A significant number of the companies from whom receivables are due are equally shareholders  of  the  Company.  In  addition,  the  liability  for  outstanding  claims  is  in  respect  of insurance contracts with the same counter parties. Receivables are presented at present value net of impairment provision. A periodic evaluation of cedants and retrocessionaires is carried out to minimize exposure to significant losses from insolvencies.

## Exposure to credit risk

The carrying amount of financial assets and insurance contracts represents the maximum credit exposure. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date was:

| Carrying amount                           | 2019          |
|-------------------------------------------|---------------|
|                                           | ETB           |
| Time deposits                             | 969,930,431   |
| Government Bond                           | 93,930,206.   |
| Staff loans                               | 469,542.      |
| Insurance Receivables(ceding)             | 137,653,410   |
| Insurance Receivable Retrocession         | 215,302,382   |
| Cash and cash equivalents (bank balances) | 109,122,501   |
| Balances at 30 June 2019                  | 1,526,408,472 |

<!-- page 76 -->

<!-- image -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (c) Credit risk (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## Impairment losses

The ageing of insurance debtors at the reporting date was as follows:

|                             | Gross Amount   | Impairment   |
|-----------------------------|----------------|--------------|
|                             | ETB            | ETB          |
| Not past due (0-29 days)    | 71,479,660     | -            |
| Past due (30-90 days)       | 28,918,611     | -            |
| Past due (91-180 days)      | 23,309,134     | -            |
| Past due(181-360 days)      | 56,743,069     | -            |
| Past due More than 360 days | 53,426,547     | -            |
|                             | 233,876,021    | -            |

## Receivables from Retrocesionnaires

| Description                 | Gross Amount ETB   |
|-----------------------------|--------------------|
| Current (0-29 days)         | 267,615,325        |
| Past due (30-90 days)       | -                  |
| Past due (91 - 180 days)    | 194,743            |
| Past due 181 - 360 days     | -                  |
| Past due more than 360 days | 332,456            |
| Total                       | 268,142,524        |

The allowance account in respect of insurance receivables is used to record impairment losses unless  the  Company is  satisfied  that  no  recovery  of  the  amount  owing  is  possible.  At  that  point the  amount  is  considered  irrecoverable  and  is  written  off  against  the  financial  asset  directly.

<!-- page 77 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued)

## (c) Credit risk (Continued)

As  at  30  June  2019  the  Company  was  satisfied  that  all  receivables  will  be  collected  and  no allowance for credit losses relating to insurance receivables were recognised.

## Amount arising from Expected Credit Losses (ECL)

For  inputs,  assumptions  and  techniques  used  for  estimating  impairment  see  accounting  note 3c(viii). The following amounts were subject to ECL as they were classified at amortised cost:

|                 |      2019 ETB |
|-----------------|---------------|
| Staff loans     |     469,542.5 |
| Cash at bank    |   109,122,501 |
| Time deposits   |   969,930,431 |
| Government Bond |    93,930,206 |
| Total           | 1,173,452,680 |

When determining whether the credit risk (i.e. risk of default) on a financial instrument has increased significantly  since  initial  recognition,  the  Company  considers  reasonable  and  supportable information that is  relevant  and  available  without  undue  cost  or  effort.  This  includes  both  the qualitative  and  quantitative  information  and  analysis  based  on  the  Company's  experience, expert credit assessment and forward looking information.

Whenever available the Company monitors changes in credit risk by tracking published external credit  ratings.  Where  external  credit  ratings  are  not  available,  the  Company  allocates  each exposure to a credit risk graded based on data that is determined to be predictive of the risk of default, including, but not limited to, audited financial statements, management account and cash flow projections and available regulatory and press information about borrowers.

The Company has assumed that the credit risk of a financial asset has not increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial asset has a low credit risk at the reporting date.

Key inputs into the measurement of expected credit losses are performance default rates (PD), loss given default (LGD) and exposure at default (EAD).PD estimates the likelihood of a default happening over a specified period. LGD is the magnitude of the likely loss if there is default. EAD represents the expected exposure in the event of default. The Company measures ECL considering the risk of default over the maximum contractual period.

<!-- page 78 -->

<!-- image -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (c) Credit risk (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

The Company assumed a zero percent rate of default on its time deposit and cash at bank. This was based on the following factors and circumstances:

<!-- image -->

- The Company considers time deposits to be in default when a financial asset is more than 90 days past due; all its time deposits were paid on the date of maturity.
- In  assessing  whether a borrower is in default, the Company considers indicators such as breaches of covenant and other indicators of financial distress, overdue status of another obligation of the same issuer; none of these conditions were applicable.
- Subsequent  to  30  June  2019  the  Company  had  already  collected  all  its  dues  from  the financial institutions it held financial assets with.
- Based on enquiries made with other external sources there was no history of default on time deposits with the financial institutions invested.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

The Statutory deposit was considered as sovereign debt and recoverable in full, a zero percent default rate was applied in calculating expected credit losses.

<!-- page 79 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued)

## (c) Credit risk (Continued)

Staff loans were considered recoverable in full as the amounts are deducted from salaries and in the event of employees leaving before settling their debts, outstanding amounts are deducted from their severance pay.

## (c) Liquidity risk

The table below analyses the Company's key financial and insurance assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at 30 June 2019 to the earlier of the re-pricing or contractual maturity date.

| Description                                           | Below 1 year   | 1 - 5 years   | > 5 years   | Total         |
|-------------------------------------------------------|----------------|---------------|-------------|---------------|
| 1 Assets                                              |                |               |             |               |
| Cash and cash equivalent                              | 10,000         |               |             | 10,000        |
| Reinsurance Premium Receivables - Ceding              | 135,482,070    |               |             | 135,482,070   |
| Reinsurance Premium Receivables - Retro               | 215,302,382    |               |             | 215,302,382   |
| Investments                                           | 2,993,430      | 90,936,775    |             | 93,930,205    |
| Bank Deposits (current and saving)                    | 109,122,501    |               |             | 109,122,501   |
| Fixed time deposit at amortized cost                  | 969,930,431    |               |             | 969,930,431   |
| Staff loans                                           | 54,607         | 414,936       |             | 469,543       |
| Total Assets 'A'                                      | 1,432,895,421  | 91,351,711    |             | 1,524,247,132 |
| 2. Liabilities                                        |                |               |             |               |
| Due to ceding companies                               | 303,972,657    |               |             | 303,972,657   |
| Due to Retrocessionaires                              | 19,420,926     |               |             | 19,420,926    |
| Provision for unearned premiums                       | 235,229,724    |               |             | 235,229,724   |
| Provision for incurred but not reported claims (IBNR) | 67,351,047     |               |             | 67,351,047    |
| Outstanding Claims Reserve                            | 216,093,223    |               |             | 216,093,223   |
| Other payables                                        | 2,884,292      |               |             | 2,884,292     |
| Lease Liability                                       | 1,388,265      | 2,593,610     |             | 3,981,875     |
| Employees Benefit Liability                           | 104,810        |               |             | 104,810       |
| Provision for Income Tax                              | 10,574,780     |               |             | 10,574,780    |
| Total Liability 'B'                                   | 857,019,724    | 2,593,610     | -           | 859,613,334   |
| Liquidity gap A - B                                   | 575,875,697    | 88,758,101    | -           | 664,633,798   |
| Liquidity Ratio                                       | 1.67: 1        | 35.22: 1      |             | 1.77: 1       |

<!-- page 80 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued) (d) Liquidity risk (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

Liquidity  risk  is  the  risk  that  the  Company  will  encounter  difficulty  in  raising  funds  to  meet  commitments associated with reinsurance contracts and other obligations as and when due. Cash instruments include cash in chequing accounts, saving accounts and time deposits.

## Management of Liquidity risk

The  Company  manages  its  liquidity  risk  by  holding  an  adequate  liquidity  buffer  to  pay  out unexpected claims. Investment in short term securities, like Treasury Bills, and Certificates of Deposit, shall be evenly distributed over 12 months to enable the Company to meet its unexpected liquidity problem without forfeiting interest accrued on Certificate of Deposits.

The Company also prepares a one-year projected cash flow broken down into four quarters and this cash flow performance is monitored and evaluated.

## (d) Operational risk

Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a variety of causes associated with the Company's processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure, and from external factors other than credit, market and liquidity risks such as non-compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate behaviour. Operational risk arises from all the Company operations.

Generally Ethiopian Re follows the Emerging Risk Initiative (ERI) risk radar updates. Moreover, it uses the following techniques to identify possible risk events in each respective work unit and centrally:

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Brainstorming sessions among appropriate staff members of respective Departments and

- Services and with all Senior Management members;
- Monthly reports received from different units of the Company;
- Discussions with the Company's internal and external auditors;
- Analysis of key processes and systems at corporate level;
- Different local and international media reports/ news;

Technical conferences and workshops;

- Industry, Trade and Professional journals;
- Assessing past experience of the Company (for example, using internal databases) and
- from experience in the local and international markets.

Establishing Administrative Organization and Internal Control Systems to control risks during the operational process.

<!-- page 81 -->

## 4. Financial risk review (Continued)

## (e) Operational risk (Continued)

<!-- image -->

To  mitigate  risks  like  fraud  and  errors,  the  Company  has  established  internal  control systems whereby approval limits for underwriting, reinsurance, claims handling, payment authorization for major capital expenditures and general expenses, investment/divestment, cheque signatories are authorized for different levels of executive management aligned with the hierarchy of Ethiopian Re structure.

## (e) Capital management

Capital  requirements  are  set  and  regulated  by  the  National  Bank  of  Ethiopia  (NBE).  These requirements are put in place to ensure solvency margins are maintained in the insurance industry. Further, objectives are set by the Company to maintain a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business objectives and maximize shareholders value.

## Regulatory Capital

The  Company  currently  has  Birr  607,168,354  paid  up  capital  which  is  above  the  statutory requirement of Birr 500,000,000 set by the National Bank of Ethiopia.

## 5. Cash and cash equivalents

|                           | Gen. Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|---------------------------|-----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Saving a ccounts          |                 |                      |              |              |
| Commercial Bank of Eth.   | 83,351 ,690     |                      | 83,351 ,690  | 21 5,277,893 |
| Current a ccounts         |                 |                      |              |              |
| Abyssinia Bank            | 6,51 1 ,740     |                      | 6,51 1 ,740  | 1 ,61 2      |
| AddisInternational Bank   | 1 ,825          |                      | 1 ,825       | 1 ,947       |
| Awash International Bank  | 6,1 50,782      |                      | 6,1 50,782   | 1 4,940,1 71 |
| Buna International Bank   | 990             |                      | 990          |              |
| Commercial Bank of Eth.   | 2,01 7,065      |                      | 2,01 7,065   | 3,746,485    |
| Coop. Bank Of Oromia S.C  | 8,760,91 6      |                      | 8,760,91 6   | 1 55,880     |
| Dashen Bank               | 395,427         |                      | 395,427      | 1 ,020       |
| Nib International Bank    | 1 ,790,579      |                      | 1 ,790,579   | 48,61 5      |
| Oromia International Bank | 1 31 ,289       |                      | 1 31 ,289    | 61 4         |
| Wegagen Bank              | -               | 1 0,1 97             | 1 0,1 97     | 2,81 4,1 54  |
| Cash on Hand              | 1 0,000         |                      | 1 0,000      | 1 0,003      |
| Total                     | 109,122,304     | 10 ,197              | 109,132,501  | 236,998,394  |

<!-- page 82 -->

Ethio RE Annual Report

## 6. Other receivables

|             |   Gen.Ins 2019 | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|-------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Staff loans |        469,543 | -                    | 469,543      | 556,523      |
| Prepayment  |      3,077,245 | -                    | 3,077,245    | 21 ,1 50     |
| Advance tax |      2,967,495 | 64,1 39              | 3,031 ,634   | 5,465,81 9   |
| Total       |      6,514,283 | 64,139               | 6,578,421    | 6,043,492    |

## 7. Due from Retrocessionaires

|                             | Gen.Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|-----------------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Due from retrocessiona ires | 21 5,302,382   | -                    | 21 5,302,382 |              |
| Due from retrocessiona ires | 215,302,382    | -                    | 215,302,382  | -            |

## 8. Due from ceding companies

|                 | Gen.Ins      | Long Term Ins   | Total        | Total         |
|-----------------|--------------|-----------------|--------------|---------------|
| Due from ceding | 1 20,520,675 | 1 4,961 ,395    | 1 35,482,070 | 1 23,803,1 01 |
| Due from ceding | 120,520,675  | 14,961,395      | 135,482,070  | 123,803,101   |

<!-- page 83 -->

## 9. Deferred acquisition costs

|                    | Gen.Ins     | Long Term Ins   | Total       | Total         |
|--------------------|-------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------|
| Cla ss of Business | 2019        | 2019            | 2019        | 2018          |
| Accident           | 2,028,953   |                 | 2,028,953   | 2,089,687     |
| Aviation           | 46          |                 | 46          | 75,81 4       |
| Burglary           | 1 82,044    |                 | 1 82,044    | 1 43,667      |
| Engineering        | 9,960,1 62  |                 | 9,960,1 62  | 1 5,328,738   |
| EmployersLiability | 1 ,332,056  |                 | 1 ,332,056  | 1 ,287,960    |
| Fire               | 6,509,038   |                 | 6,509,038   | 5,439,744     |
| Goodsin transit    | 1 59,21 1   |                 | 1 59,21 1   | 285,085       |
| Liability          | 3,003,61 6  |                 | 3,003,61 6  | 3,037,923     |
| Marine             | 1 4,579,595 |                 | 1 4,579,595 | 1 3,065,747   |
| Medical            | 9,739       |                 | 9,739       | -             |
| Motor              | 1 2,345,285 |                 | 1 2,345,285 | 1 1 ,664,379  |
| Pecuiniary         | 1 0,760,785 |                 | 1 0,760,785 | 8,639,886     |
| Others             | 4,330,896   |                 | 4,330,896   | 3,474,1 28    |
| Life               | -           | 1 ,965,978      | 1 ,965,978  | 1 ,91 1 ,1 35 |
| Total              | 65,201,426  | 1,965,978       | 67,167,405  | 66,443,894    |

A  proportion  of  cedant  acquisition  costs  is  deferred  and  amortized  over  the  period  in  which the related premium is earned. Deferred acquisition costs represent the proportion of cedant acquisition costs and other acquisition costs that relate to the unexpired term of the policies that are in force at year end.

## 10. Time deposits

|                             | Gen.Ins        | Long Term Ins   | Total         | Total          |
|-----------------------------|----------------|-----------------|---------------|----------------|
| Name of Bank                | 2019           | 2019            | 2019          | 2018           |
| Bank of Abysinia            | 1 64,808,01 5  | 27,861 ,256     | 1 92,669,271  | 1 04,529,708   |
| AddisInternational Bank     | 1 2,435,980    | -               | 1 2,435,980   | 1 1 ,1 22,1 66 |
| Awash International Bank    | 1 96,240,81 3  | 1 8,1 56,1 02   | 21 4,396,91 5 | 1 42,1 96,71 9 |
| Bunna International Bank    | -              | -               | -             | 1 8,533,659    |
| Co operative Bank Of Oromia | 42,727,498     | -               | 42,727,498    | 22,283,241     |
| Dashen Bank                 | 1 25,91 6,41 9 | 23,925,729      | 1 49,842,1 48 | 1 34,299,51 3  |
| NIB International bank      | 1 08,61 2,631  | 1 0,869,445     | 1 1 9,482,076 | 74,584,61 9    |
| Oromia International Bank   | 1 65,797,533   | -               | 1 65,797,533  | 36,1 46,608    |
| United Bank                 | 1 6,697,1 62   | -               | 1 6,697,1 62  | 1 4,940,768    |
| Wegagen Bank                | 50,256,970     | 5,624,877       | 55,881 ,847   | 44,987,669     |
|                             | 883,493,022    | 86,437,409      | 969,930,431   | 603,624,670    |

<!-- page 84 -->

<!-- image -->

## 10. Time deposits (Continued)

Time deposits have been recognized as financial assets at amortized cost. The effective interest rate on time deposits ranges from 12% to 13% per annum. The time deposits have a maturity of one year from the date of investment.

The  interest  receivable  related  to  time  deposits  is  calculated  using  the  effective  interest  rate method and is shown as follows;

|                     |   Gen. Ins |   Long Term Ins |      Total |      Total |
|---------------------|------------|-----------------|------------|------------|
|                     |       2019 |            2019 |       2019 |       2018 |
| Interest Receivable | 49,007,877 |       6,454,818 | 55,462,696 | 30,657,627 |

## 11. Grand Renaissance Dam Bonds

A statutory deposit amounting to 15% of the paid-up capital must be maintained with the National Bank of Ethiopia. This deposit or any part thereof may not be withdrawn except with the written permission of the National Bank of Ethiopia, or be used as a pledge or security for any loan.

The statutory requirement has been fulfilled by the deposit of Grand Renaissance Dam Bonds.

|                     | Gen.Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   |   Total 2019 | Total 2018   |
|---------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Statutory deposit   | 77,296,259     | 1 3,640,51 6         |   90,936,775 | 77,91 7,500  |
| Interest Receivable | 2,544,41 6     | 449,01 4             |    2,993,431 | 2,91 0,81 7  |
|                     | 79,840,675     | 14,089,531           |   93,930,206 | 80,828,317   |

The bond has been recognized as a financial asset at amortized cost. The effective biannual interest rate on the bond has changed from 2.75% to 3.75% effective from October 2019.

<!-- page 85 -->

## 12. Leases

Right of use

|                                  | Gen.Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018    |
|----------------------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------|---------------|
| Cost                             |                |                      |              |               |
| Balance at beginning of the year | 8,1 1 7,946    | -                    | 8,1 1 7,946  | 8,208,31 8    |
| Addition                         | -              | -                    | -            | -             |
| FV adjustments                   | 850,089        | -                    | 850,089      | (90,373)      |
| Balance at end of the year       | 8,968,035      | -                    | 8,968,035    | 8,117,945     |
| Depreciation                     |                |                      |              |               |
| Balance at beginning of the year | (2,41 0,260)   | -                    | (2,41 0,260) | (784,350)     |
| Additions                        | (1 ,755,032)   | -                    | (1 ,755,032) | (1 ,625,91 0) |
| Balance at end of the year       | ( 4,165,292)   | -                    | ( 4,165,292) | ( 2,410,260)  |
| Net ca rrying value              | 4,802,744      | -                    | 4,802,744    | 5,707,685     |

The right of use asset has been depreciated over 5 years which is equivalent to the lease term.

|                                       | Gen.Ins      | Long Term Ins   | Total              | Total         |
|---------------------------------------|--------------|-----------------|--------------------|---------------|
| Lease lia bility                      | 2019         | 2019            | 2019               | 2018          |
| Balance at beginning of the year      | 4,830,1 75   |                 | 4,830,1 75         | 4,337,893     |
| Lease liability Addition (Adjustment) | 850,091      |                 | 850,091            | (90,373)      |
| Interest expense on Lease             | 563,502      |                 | 563,502            | 582,656       |
| settlement                            | (2,261 ,893) |                 | (2,261 ,893)       |               |
| Balance at end of the year            | 3,981,876    | -               | 3,981,876          | 4,830,175     |
|                                       |              |                 | Total              | Total 2018    |
| Maturity Analysis                     |              |                 | 2019 1 ,388,265.00 | 582,655.75    |
| Lessthan 1year 1 -5 years             |              |                 | 2,593,61 1 .00     | 4,247,51 9.64 |
| More than 5 years                     |              |                 | -                  | -             |
| Total                                 |              |                 | 3,981,876.00       | 4,830,175.39  |

The Company recognizes a lease liability at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. The Company uses an incremental borrowing rate that is based on the interest rate that the Company would have to pay on the commencement date of the lease for a loan of a similar term, and with a similar security, to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. The rate used to compute the present value of this lease liability was 13.5%.

<!-- page 86 -->

<!-- image -->

## 13. Property, plant and equipment

|                             | Balance                 |              | Balance     | Total       |
|-----------------------------|-------------------------|--------------|-------------|-------------|
| COST                        | 01/07/18                | Additions    | 30/06/19    | 2018        |
| Partition work              | 2,489,846               | -            | 2,489,846   | 2,489,846   |
| Motor Vehicles              | 1 4,343,506             | -            | 1 4,343,506 | 1 4,343,506 |
| Office Equipment, furniture | and fittings 1 ,757,895 | 1 ,01 3      | 1 ,758,908  | 1 ,757,895  |
| Computers& accessories      | 592,452                 | 1 08,827     | 701 ,279    | 592,452     |
| Sub tota l                  | 19,183,700              | 109,840      | 19,293,540  | 19,183,700  |
|                             | Balance                 |              | Balance     | Total       |
| DEPRECIATION                | 01/07/18                | Additions    | 30/06/19    | 2018        |
| Partition work              | 657,769                 | 492,989      | 1 ,1 50,759 | 657,769     |
| Motor Vehicles              | 2,246,61 5              | 1 ,537,265   | 3,783,881   | 2,246,61 5  |
| Office Equipment, furniture | and fittings 276,087    | 205,324      | 481 ,41 1   | 276,087     |
| Computers& accessories      | 1 60,828                | 1 61 ,023    | 321 ,851    | 1 60,828    |
| Sub tota l                  | 3,341,300               | 2,396,602    | 5,737,902   | 3,341,300   |
| NET BOOK VALUE              | 15,842,400              | ( 2,286,762) | 13,555,638  | 15,842,400  |
| Inta ngible a sset          | Balance                 |              | Balance     | Total       |
| COST                        | 01/07/18                | Additions    | 30/06/19    | 2018        |
| Computer Software           |                         | 5,460,476    | 5,460,476   |             |

## 14. Unearned premium

|                                         | Gen. Ins 2019       | Long Term Ins 2019   |   Total 2019 | Total 2018   |
|-----------------------------------------|---------------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Provision for Unearned Premium          | 260,239,974         | 1 2,828,659          |  273,068,633 | 250,61 7,822 |
| Less: Retrocess. Share of Provision for | UPR 37,838,909      | -                    |   37,838,909 | 8,275,334    |
| Net Provision for Unearned              | Premium 222,401,065 | 12,828,659           |  235,229,724 | 242,342,488  |

The Unearned Premium Reserve (UPR) was determined by an independent actuary using the 8ths method which assumes quarterly reserving and is internationally accepted for reinsurers.

<!-- page 87 -->

## 15. Other payables

|                              | Gen.Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|------------------------------|----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| EmployeesIncome tax payable  | 206,080        | -                    | 206,080      | 1 32,944     |
| Withholding tax payable      | 7,789          | -                    | 7,789        | 1 1 ,400     |
| Pension Payable              | 79,481         | -                    | 79,481       | 63,340       |
| Sundry creditors             | 1 ,1 88,61 4   | -                    | 1 ,1 88,61 4 | 963,754      |
| Accrued staff bonusand leave | 993,740        | -                    | 993,740      | 429,763      |
| Provision for audit fee      | 281 ,750       | -                    | 281 ,750     | 207,000      |
| Other accruals               | 1 26,839       | -                    | 1 26,839     | 38,550       |
| Differed Tax payable         | 41 6,745       | 56,039               | 472,784      |              |
| Total                        | 3,301,037      | 56,039               | 3,357,076    | 1,846,752    |

## 16. Due to Ceding Companies

|                         |     Gen.Ins | Long Term Ins   |       Total |      Total |
|-------------------------|-------------|-----------------|-------------|------------|
|                         |        2019 | 2019            |        2019 |       2018 |
| Due to ceding Companies | 303,972,657 | -               | 303,972,657 | 30,278,170 |

<!-- page 88 -->

<!-- image -->

## 17. Employee benefits

## 17.1  Defined benefit plans

The Company employees are entitled to a Severance Benefit. The Severance Benefit Entitlement is provided for under the Proclamation No. 377/2003. This benefit is required by law for employees who serve the Company for more than five years and who resign on their own initiation, or, where their  employment  contract  is  terminated  by  the  Company.  An  employee  whose  contract  of employment is terminated on his own initiative is entitled to normal severance pay. An employee whose contract of employment is terminated without notice by the Company shall be entitled, in addition to the normal severance pay, to two months' latest basic salary. The severance pay obligation highlighted below relates to its first year of operation from 1 July 2016.

The obligation is determined by an independent actuarial valuation carried out on an annual basis.

## (a) Present value of funded obligations

|                                                     | Gen.Ins   | Long Term Ins   | Total     | Total   |
|-----------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------|-----------|---------|
| a ) Present value of funded obliga tion             | 2019      | 2019            | 2019      | 2018    |
| Active Members                                      | 1 00,61 8 | 4,1 92          | 1 04,81 0 | 61 ,399 |
| Outstanding Members                                 | -         | -               | -         | -       |
| Net Lia bility on Statement of Fina ncia l Position | 100,618   | 4,192           | 104,810   | 61,399  |

## (b) Reconciliation of benefit obligations

|                                                      | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|------------------------------------------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Opening benefit obliga tion                          | 61,398       | 27,155       |
| Current service cost net of employees' contributions | 43,435       | 38,51 0      |
| Interest cost                                        | 9,1 42       | 5,1 05       |
| Actuarial Gain                                       | (9,1 66)     | (9,372)      |
| Benefitsand expensespaid                             | -            | -            |
| Closing benefit obliga tion                          | 104,810      | 61,398       |

## (c) Actuarial assumptions

The principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date used for the purpose of the severance benefit actuarial valuation are detailed below:

| Discount rate           | 13.5%   |
|-------------------------|---------|
| Rate of salary increase | 10%     |

<!-- page 89 -->

## 17. Employee benefits (Continued)

## (c) Actuarial assumptions (Continued)

The discount rate was based on the rate of return of fixed term deposit due to lack of a deep and liquid market for long-term bonds in Ethiopia. The salary increases assumption rate of 6.67% per annum is the weighted average rate based on the job grades as provided by management.

## (d) Sensitivity analysis

Reasonably possible  changes  at  the  reporting  date,  in  any  of  the  actuarial  assumptions  and assuming that all the other variables remain constant, would have affected the funded obligations as of 30 June, 2019 by the amounts shown below:

|                                                  | SENARIO 1, BASE   | SENARIO 2, DISCOUNT RATE INCREASE BY 1%   | SENARIO 3, SALARY RATE INCREASED BY 1%   | SENARIO 4, DISCOUNT RATE DECREASED BY 1%   | SENARIO 5 SALARY RATE DECREASE BY 1%   |
|--------------------------------------------------|-------------------|-------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| Discount rate salary                             | 13.5%             | 14.5%                                     | 13.5%                                    | 12.5%                                      | 13.5%                                  |
| increase                                         | 10%               | 10%                                       | 11%                                      | 10%                                        | 9%                                     |
| net liability at start of period                 | 61,398            | 61,398                                    | 61,398                                   | 61,398                                     | 61,398                                 |
| Total net expense recognized in income statement | 52577             | 52577                                     | 52577                                    | 52577                                      | 52577                                  |
| Net finance costs recognized in profit and loss  | (9,166)           | (15,060)                                  | (2,319)                                  | (2,504)                                    | (15,310)                               |
| Employer contribution                            | -                 | -                                         | -                                        | -                                          | -                                      |
| Net liability at end of period                   | 104,809           | 98,915                                    | 111,656                                  | 111,471                                    | 98,665                                 |

## 17.2 Defined contribution plan

Pensions are provided for employees by a separate pension fund to which both the company and employees contribute in accordance with Proclamation No. 715/2011. Under the arrangement, both the company and employees contribute defined percentages of employees' salaries. This pension fund is a defined contribution plan under which retirement benefits are determined by reference to the contributions to the fund. The Company's contributions for the schemes for the year amounted to ETB 572,494.44.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 90 -->

<!-- image -->

## 18. Outstanding Claims Reserve

Outstanding claims are computed on the basis of preliminary loss advice from ceding companies and outstanding claims reports sent by cedants. They are also determined on the basis of historical expenses and actuarial analysis.

|                                                     | Gen. Ins      | Long Term Ins   | Total         | Total         |
|-----------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|---------------|---------------|
|                                                     | 20 19         | 20 19           | 20 19         | 20 18         |
| Oustanding ClaimsReserve                            | 241 ,490,1 99 | -               | 241 ,490,1 99 | 1 60,872,51 4 |
| Less: Retro cess. Share of Oustanding ClaimsReserve | 23,089,257    | -               | 23,089,257    | 6,039,258     |
| Net Oustanding Claims Reserve                       | 218,400,942   | -               | 218,400,942   | 154, 833, 256 |

## 19. Capital

## (a) Structure of capital

The  Company is  wholly  owned  by  Ethiopian  nationals  and/or  organizations  wholly  owned  by Ethiopian  nationals.  All  shares  rank  equally  with  regard  to  the  Company's  residual  assets  and shareholders are entitled to one vote per share. As of 30 June 2019, the Company's capital was as follows:

|                                   | 2019   |        2019 | 2019   |
|-----------------------------------|--------|-------------|--------|
| Authorized: Share Capital         |        |             |        |
| 99,730 shares of Birr 10,000 each | ETB    | 997,300,000 |        |

|                       |    Gen. Ins |   Long Term Ins |       Total |       Total |
|-----------------------|-------------|-----------------|-------------|-------------|
|                       |        2019 |            2019 |        2019 |        2018 |
| Issued and Fully paid | 529,250,854 |      77,917,500 | 607,168,354 | 519,450,000 |

## (b) Nature and purpose of reserves

In accordance with Proclamation No. 746/2012 any reinsurer, at the end of each year, is required to transfer to its legal reserve an amount not less than 10% of its net profit until such reserve equals it's paid up capital.

The Company had set aside Formation fund amounting to ETB 9,973,000 equivalent to 1% of the authorized share capital. This fund was intended to finance the pre-establishment costs.

<!-- page 91 -->

## 20. Gross premium

Premiums and related expenses are accounted for in profit or loss when earned or incurred. Gross earned premiums comprise gross premiums relating to risks assumed in the year after accounting for any movement in gross unearned premiums. Unearned premiums represent the proportion of the premiums written in the year that are attributable to the subsequent accounting period.

The  Company  has  two  main  divisions,  General  reinsurance  and  Long-term  business.  General reinsurance  business  is  for  contract  durations  typically  running  for  one  year,  while  Long-  term business is for other business not considered as non-life business.

The gross premiums for the financial year 2019 is analyzed as below:

|                           | Gen. Ins 2019   | Long Term Ins 2019   | Total 2019   | Total 2018   |
|---------------------------|-----------------|----------------------|--------------|--------------|
| Accident                  | 1 6,671 ,580    | -                    | 1 6,671 ,580 | 20,282,465   |
| Aviation                  | 33,41 7,749     | -                    | 33,41 7,749  | 24,674,1 56  |
| Burglary                  | 2,463,272       | -                    | 2,463,272    | 1 ,961 ,61 6 |
| Eng.                      | 74,352,399      | -                    | 74,352,399   | 66,955,71 4  |
| Emp. Liability            | 9,01 5,297      | -                    | 9,01 5,297   | 9,401 ,983   |
| Fire                      | 99,369,71 7     | -                    | 99,369,71 7  | 91 ,322,727  |
| Goodsin Transit           | 1 ,1 53,991     | -                    | 1 ,1 53,991  | 1 ,366,401   |
| Liability                 | 1 8,471 ,574    | -                    | 1 8,471 ,574 | 20,556,999   |
| Marine                    | 88,657,085      | -                    | 88,657,085   | 65,709,341   |
| Medical                   | 47,946          | -                    | 47,946       |              |
| Motor                     | 254,468,1 74    | -                    | 254,468,1 74 | 256,835,900  |
| Pecuniary                 | 44,524,267      | -                    | 44,524,267   | 52,299,552   |
| Others                    | 29,623,426      |                      | 29,623,426   | 27,002,261   |
| Group Term Life Assurance | -               | 1 6,757,344          | 1 6,757,344  | 1 5,1 82,648 |
| Health Insurance          | -               | 9,684,349            | 9,684,349    | 7,91 3,592   |
| Funeral Expense Insurance | -               | 53,71 9              | 53,71 9      | 26,680       |
| Total                     | 672,236,477     | 26,495,412           | 698,731,889  | 661,492,036  |

<!-- page 92 -->

<!-- image -->

## 21. Claims incurred

The expected loss ratio method was used to determine the provision for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims for General business. An equivalent of one month of the annual gross premium was used to calculate the IBNR for long-term business. The valuation was performed by an independent actuary.

|                                                          | Gen. Ins      | Long Term Ins   | Total           | Total           |
|----------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| Class of Business                                        | 20 19         | 20 19           | 20 19           | 20 18           |
| Accident                                                 | 6,573,861     |                 | 6,573,861       | 5,1 29,1 32     |
| Aviation                                                 | 1 ,559,333    | -               | 1 ,559,333      | 209,995         |
| Burglary                                                 | 93,890        | -               | 93,890          | (31 5,391 )     |
| Eng.                                                     | 1 1 ,41 6,072 | -               | 1 1 ,41 6,072   | 8,1 71 ,332     |
| Emp. Liability                                           | 2,987,41 7    | -               | 2,987,41 7      | 2,768,491       |
| Fire                                                     | 1 3,366,795   | -               | 1 3,366,795     | 1 7,1 60,084    |
| Goodsin Transit                                          | (43,605)      | -               | (43,605)        | 478,472         |
| Liability                                                | 7,975,475     | -               | 7,975,475       | 7,1 26,277      |
| Marine                                                   | 29,972,251    | -               | 29,972,251      | 33,639,258      |
| Medical                                                  | 773           | -               | 773             |                 |
| Motor                                                    | 205,978,436   | -               | 205,978,436     | 21 4,51 4,963   |
| Pecuniary                                                | 21 ,795,651   | -               | 21 ,795,651     | 4,559,668       |
| Others                                                   | 9,679,861     | -               | 9,679,861       | 2,61 0,386      |
| Group TermLife Assurance                                 | -             | 2,974,085       | 2,974,085       | 3,255,298       |
| Health Insurance                                         | -             | 7,633,71 7      | 7,633,71 7      | 5,664,326       |
| FuneralExpense Insurance                                 | -             | 64,000          | 64,000          | 9,51 7          |
| Total                                                    | 311, 356, 210 | 10 , 671, 80 1  | 322, 0 28, 0 11 | 30 4, 981, 80 8 |
| Change in Provision for incurred but not reported claims | 6,562,61 8    | 281 ,041        | 6,843,659       | 29,879,720      |
| Net Claims Incurred                                      | 317, 918, 828 | 10 , 952,842    | 328, 871,670    | 334, 861, 528   |

<!-- page 93 -->

## 22. Cedant acquisition costs

| Cedant acquisition costs   | Gen. Ins       | Long Term Ins   | Total        | Total         |
|----------------------------|----------------|-----------------|--------------|---------------|
| Class of Business          |                |                 |              |               |
|                            | 20 19          | 20 19           | 20 19        | 20 18         |
| Accident                   | 6,844,236      |                 | 6,844,236    | 5,580,292     |
| Aviation                   | 1 ,243,781     |                 | 1 ,243,781   | 1 ,051 ,436   |
| Burglary                   | 900,71 6       |                 | 900,71 6     | 71 1 ,028     |
| Engineering                | 30,367,1 61    |                 | 30,367,1 61  | 22,473,630    |
| EmployersLiability         | 3,1 63,069     |                 | 3,1 63,069   | 2,71 3,968    |
| Fire                       | 37,025,880     |                 | 37,025,880   | 29,096,589    |
| Goodsin Transit            | 561 ,01 2      |                 | 561 ,01 2    | 41 3,594      |
| Liability                  | 6,384,320      |                 | 6,384,320    | 6,41 0,786    |
| Marine                     | 34,628,546     |                 | 34,628,546   | 23,056,960    |
| Medical                    | 5,843          |                 | 5,843        | -             |
| Motor                      | 26,373,730     |                 | 26,373,730   | 34,490,746    |
| Pecuniary                  | 20,994,743     |                 | 20,994,743   | 1 7,665,797   |
| Others                     | 4,588,1 1 0    |                 | 4,588,1 1 0  | 3,449,865     |
| Life                       | -              | 3,840,792       | 3,840,792    | 3,743,973     |
| Total                      | 173, 0 81, 146 | 3,840,792       | 176, 921,938 | 150 , 858,664 |

## 23.   Net Finance Costs

|                                         | Gen. Ins 20 19   | Long Term Ins 20 19   | Total 20 19    | Total 20 18    |
|-----------------------------------------|------------------|-----------------------|----------------|----------------|
| Investment and finance Income           | 93, 594, 827     | 9, 715, 0 19          | 10 3, 30 9,846 | 67, 472, 110   |
| Interest on Saving Accounts             | 5,1 60,31 7      | -                     | 5,1 60,31 7    | 1 4,1 1 3,91 6 |
| Interest on Fixed timed deposits        | 82,772,334       | 8,773,331             | 91 ,545,665    | 48,227,792     |
| Interest on Grand Ren. DamBond          | 5,331 ,622       | 941 ,689              | 6,273,31 1     | 5,069,61 1     |
| Interest on current account             | 95,996           | -                     | 95,996         | 1 29           |
| Interest on staff loan                  | 50,243           | -                     | 50,243         | 60,662         |
| Realized/Unrealized exchange gains      | 1 84,31 5        | -                     | 1 84,31 5      | -              |
| Investment and finance Costs            | 571,395          | 23, 80 8              | 595, 20 3      | 616,248        |
| Interest on lease liability             | 540,962          | 22,540                | 563,502        | 582,656        |
| Interest on staff loan benefit          | -                | -                     | -              | -              |
| Interest on employee benefits liability | 30,433           | 1 ,268                | 31 ,701        | 33,592         |
| Net Investment Income                   | 93, 0 23,432     | 9, 691, 211           | 10 2, 714,643  | 66, 855,862    |

<!-- page 94 -->

<!-- image -->

## 24. Operating and other expenses

|                            | Gen. Ins 20 19   | Long Term Ins 20 19   | Total 20 19   | Total 20 18   |
|----------------------------|------------------|-----------------------|---------------|---------------|
| Administrative and general | 1 8,731 ,1 72    | 572,543               | 1 9,303,71 5  | 1 2,007,077   |
| Staff costs                | 9,261 ,1 85      | 1 53,790              | 9,41 4,975    | 7,243,202     |
| Depreciation               | 2,335,839        | 60,763                | 2,396,602     | 2,204,1 36    |
| Directorsallowance         | 1 ,361 ,000      | -                     | 1 ,361 ,000   | 392,000       |
| Audit fees                 | 358,800          | -                     | 358,800       | 21 8,500      |
| Total expenses             | 32,047,997       | 787,095               | 32,835,092    | 22, 0 64, 915 |

## 25.  Income taxes

The Company is subject to income taxes in Ethiopia. The rate of business income tax applicable to a Company is 30%. In accordance with tax legislation, the taxpayer is allowed a number of deductible expenditures in determining taxable income.

## (a) Income tax expense

Total income tax expense for the year ended 30 June 2019 is as follows:

|                        | 2019 ETB    |
|------------------------|-------------|
| Current tax expense    | 10,677,345- |
| Deferred tax liability | 472,784-    |
| Income tax expense     | 11,150,129  |

<!-- page 95 -->

## (b) Income tax expense

Total taxable income or loss for the year ended 30 June 2019 is as follows

| INCOME TAX COMPUTATION For the year ended June 30th, 2019 Adjusted tax calculation   | INCOME TAX COMPUTATION For the year ended June 30th, 2019 Adjusted tax calculation   | INCOME TAX COMPUTATION For the year ended June 30th, 2019 Adjusted tax calculation   | INCOME TAX COMPUTATION For the year ended June 30th, 2019 Adjusted tax calculation   |
|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                                                                                      |                                                                                      |                                                                                      | Total                                                                                |
|                                                                                      | Gen. Ins                                                                             | Long Term Ins                                                                        | 20 19                                                                                |
| PROFIT PER ACCOUNTS                                                                  | 126, 923, 573                                                                        | 17, 575,632                                                                          | 144, 499, 20 5                                                                       |
| Add:                                                                                 |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |
| Amortization of Right Of Use (ROU)                                                   | 1 ,684,831                                                                           | 70,201                                                                               | 1 ,755,032                                                                           |
| Interest on least liability                                                          | 540,962                                                                              | 22,540                                                                               | 563,502                                                                              |
| Depreciation of fixed assetsper IFRS                                                 | 2,335,839                                                                            | 60,763                                                                               | 2,396,602                                                                            |
| Differed tax expense                                                                 | 41 6,745                                                                             | 56,039                                                                               | 472,784                                                                              |
| Less:                                                                                |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |
| Depreciation of fixed assetsper I.Tax Proc.                                          | (2,802,252)                                                                          | (1 1 6,760)                                                                          | (2,91 9,01 2)                                                                        |
| Rent Expensesfor the year 201 8-1 9                                                  | (2,065,81 8)                                                                         | (86,076)                                                                             | (2,1 51 ,894)                                                                        |
| Disallowed expenses:                                                                 |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |                                                                                      |
| Losson exchange unrealized                                                           | 700,989                                                                              | -                                                                                    | 700,989                                                                              |
| Entertainment                                                                        | 566,678                                                                              | 23,61 2                                                                              | 590,289                                                                              |
| unrealized exchange gain                                                             | (1 84,31 5)                                                                          | -                                                                                    | (1 84,31 5)                                                                          |
| Severance pay provision                                                              | 41 ,698                                                                              | 1 ,737                                                                               | 43,435                                                                               |
| Provision for annualleave                                                            | 698,273                                                                              | 1 6,477                                                                              | 71 4,749                                                                             |
| Over IBNR provision                                                                  | 2,762,41 3                                                                           | (1 1 6,282)                                                                          | 2,646,1 31                                                                           |
| Employee Benefit                                                                     | 1 40,360                                                                             |                                                                                      | 1 40,360                                                                             |
| Tax exempt Income                                                                    |                                                                                      |                                                                                      | -                                                                                    |
| Interest Income                                                                      | (93,360,269)                                                                         | (9,71 5,01 9)                                                                        | (1 03,075,288)                                                                       |
| Taxable Profit Current year                                                          | 38, 399, 70 6                                                                        | 7, 792,863                                                                           | 46, 192, 570                                                                         |
| Taxable Loss BBF                                                                     | ( 17, 731, 364)                                                                      | 7, 129,945                                                                           | ( 10 , 601, 418)                                                                     |
| Total TAXABLE INCOME/ ( LOSS)                                                        | 20 ,668,342                                                                          | 14, 922, 80 9                                                                        | 35, 591, 151                                                                         |
| CURRENT INCOME TAX @30%                                                              | 6,200,503                                                                            | 4,476,843                                                                            | 1 0,677,345                                                                          |
| Less: Advance profit tax paid in 201 8-1 9                                           | 2,967,495                                                                            | 64,1 39                                                                              | 3,031 ,634                                                                           |
| Income Tax payable ( Refundable)                                                     | 3, 233, 0 0 8                                                                        | 4, 412, 70 4                                                                         | 7, 645, 711                                                                          |

2

0

1

8

/

9

<!-- page 96 -->

<!-- image -->

## 26. Earnings per Share (EPS)

Earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit/loss for the year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.

|                                            | 20 19 ETB    | 20 18 ETB   |
|--------------------------------------------|--------------|-------------|
| Profit attributable to Shareholders        | 1 20,439,673 | 78,631 ,836 |
| Weighted average number of ordinary shares |              |             |
| issued                                     | 56,41 0      | 51 ,91 2    |
| Basic and diluted earnings per share       | 2,1 35.06    | 1 ,51 4.70  |

## Basic and diluted earnings per share

There were no potentially dilutive shares outstanding at 30 June 2019. The diluted earnings per share is therefore the same as the basic earnings per share.

## 27. Related parties

For the purposes of these financial statements, a party is considered to be related to the Company if:

<!-- image -->

- The party has the ability, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, to control the Company or exercise significant influence over the Company in making financial and operating policy decisions, or has joint control over the Company;
- The Company and the party are subject to common control; and
- The party is a member of key management personnel of the Company or the Company's parent, or close family member of such an individual.

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## Ultimate parent company

The  entity  has  no  ultimate  parent  company.  The  Company's  shareholdings  comprise  various insurance companies, banking institutions and individuals in Ethiopia. The shareholding is as follows:

<!-- page 97 -->

## 27. Related parties (Continued)

| Shareholder Category                                                                                      | Composition   | Percentage Shareholding   |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------|---------------------------|
| 1 7 insurance companies. Ethiopian insurance Corporation (EIC) isa major shareholder in thiscategory with | 66.90%        | Insurance companies       |
| 7 banksin Ethiopia. Commercial of Ethiopia (CBE) isa major shareholder with 20.05%                        | Bank 30.76%   | Banks                     |
| 78 individuals. Includesthe CEO with 0.02%                                                                | 2.33%         | Individuals               |
| Trade 1trade union                                                                                        | 0.01%         | unions                    |
| Total %                                                                                                   | 100%          |                           |

Related party transactions were made on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm's length transactions with the exception of loans provided to staff at below market rates. These transactions include  loans,  deposits  and  foreign  currency  transactions.  The  volumes  of  the  related  party transactions, outstanding balances at the end of the year and the related expenses and incomes for the year are as follows:

<!-- page 98 -->

## 27. Related parties (Continued) Ethio RE Annual Report

## (a) Other related party transactions

|                              | 20 19 ETB        | 20 18 ETB      |
|------------------------------|------------------|----------------|
| BBF                          | 1 3,067,1 91     | 9,1 38,384     |
| Premiumswritten              | 244,479,91 9.1 0 | 21 5,380,307   |
| Claimspaid                   | (49,052,421 .00) | (56,866,692)   |
| Commission                   | (68,789,502)     | (58,782,548)   |
| Profit commission            | (1 3,868,446)    | (1 7,1 57,964) |
| Net amount                   | 1 25,836,742     | 91 ,71 1 ,486  |
| Amountspaid by EIC           | (95,331 ,449)    | (78,644,295)   |
| Amounts outstanding from EIC | 30 , 50 5,292    | 13, 0 67, 191  |

Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (*CBE is a major shareholder with 20.05% shareholding and holds saving and current bank accounts for Ethiopian Re)

|                 | 20 19 ETB    | 20 18 ETB      |
|-----------------|--------------|----------------|
| Savingsaccount  | 83,351 ,690  | 21 5,277,893   |
| Current account | 2,01 7,065   | 3,746,485      |
| Total Balance   | 85, 368, 755 | 219, 0 24, 378 |

Other shareholder banks (Other six shareholder banks hold saving and current accounts and Time Deposits for Ethiopian Re)

|                 | 2,01 9            | 2,01 8            |
|-----------------|-------------------|-------------------|
|                 | ETB               | ETB               |
| Savings account | -                 | -                 |
| Current account | 23,753,548.64     | 1 7,805,572.38    |
| Time Deposits   | 691 ,1 69,399.1 0 | 493,382,1 21 .55  |
| Total balance   | 71 4,922,947.74   | 51 1 ,1 87,693.93 |

Other shareholder insurance companies are cedants for Ethiopian Re. All business related to gross premiums written (both for General and Life business) is attributable to the shareholder insurance companies.

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 99 -->

## 27. Related parties (Continued)

## (b) Remuneration of directors and key management personnel

Ethiopian Re directors received the following payments during the financial year ended 30 June 2019:

|                    | 2019        | 2018    |
|--------------------|-------------|---------|
|                    | ETB         | ETB     |
| DirectorsAllowance | 1 ,361 ,000 | 392,000 |

Key management members received the following remuneration during the financial year ended 30 June, 2019:

|                           | 2019       | 2018       |
|---------------------------|------------|------------|
| Key Management Members    | ETB        | ETB        |
| Short term benefits       | 5,871 ,767 | 4,499,1 88 |
| Post -Employement benefit | 42,923     | 27,048     |

Compensation  of  the  Company's  key  management  personnel  includes  salaries,  medical benefit,  pension  contribution,  executive  allowance,  transport  allowance,  bonus  payment, annual  leave  expense  and  life  insurance.  These  amounts  are  also  included  in  staff  costs (see  note  24).  Apart  from  the  employee  benefits  provided  above,  there  were  no  other transactions between the Company and its key management personnel.

<!-- page 100 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 101 -->

2018/19

<!-- page 102 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 103 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- page 104 -->

<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

## የኢትዮጵያ ጠለፋ መድን ኩባንያ አ . ማ .

Ethiopian Reinsurance Company S.C.

Africa Avenue | Kirkos Subcity | Woreda 9 Tel: +251-115-575757 | 115-582790 | 92 | 93 Fax:+251 115 575758

P.O. Box 12687 , Addis Ababa, Ethiopia

Email: info@ethiopianre.com Website: www.ethiopianre.com